---
{title: Visions of the Sentient Ocean}
---
*A strange imagining, a water-filled dream. Faces - alien faces - forming in it, screaming, speaking but not in any language one could ever understand, for it is not a language of sound or sight but of the pull of the currents, the saltiness of the water, the subtle gradients of temperature and the throbbing of the weight of the ocean above, water around. Desperate flight, ripped from somewhere. A door, pulled open, a portal, following the tendrils of magic to a new place. A home. "We could not stay," the currents whisper. "We could not stay. The homewaters collapsed around us, the worldwaters were crushed. We fled. We were lucky to find this place." You feel the heat of dryness behind you, a concept -- dryness -- that seems completely alien in this language of salt water and currents and temperature.*

*The ocean turns to the party, questioning. You, Wellby, could have stayed, stayed in the Green Sea, stayed with family, with roadhomes and shiphomes. Yet you didn't? You, Delwath, could have stayed in treehomes, in feywanderings, could have not gone to war. Yet you didn't?"*

In the face of these visions, the ocean questions the party, pressing them, why did you leave your homes? 

In response, Wellby says, or thinks, or imagines, all those homes, the tidy, tight little ship cabins that he sailed in for years and years. The sound of the gulls over the water. The wagon homes, cabins along with the wagons filled with trade goods. But he also thinks and remembers thinking back to all the different times he sat with a map spread out on the table in front of him, all the different map shops and map sellers, and the little book of maps that his family had, the sea charts, over and over again, putting a finger down across all different ages, from a little young halfling to grown man on the blank places on the map and saying, what's there, what's there over and over again. And at last, says, that it took me a long time to realize it down to my bones, but that's where my home really is. The blank places on the map.

*As Wellby speaks, the currents swirl, forming strange images: a massive island floating in the sea. giant city underwater carved in the side of a huge underwater mountain that stretches immensely through water murky and blurred in your vision, a ship seen from below and then somehow alive,  diving below the ocean, its shape shifting as it does. And you can see, you can hear, a slight discordance in this, as the ocean seems to be acknowledging your the strangeness of the world. And yet still there is this longing for what is now gone. 

Delwath is thinking, and I guess, speaking, but it's hard to express in words, of the dreaming. When he was a child of this place amongst the trees, where he would run and talk and play and explore and experience with his his age, mates, his ka, his generation, all the things that humans experience in dreams that elves no longer do once they awaken from their childhood. He recalls the stars shouting a warning from that place. Elmerica in particular, the elven Wild Star, shouting a warning into the dreaming war, awake, war awake and waking up with his age mates, too young really to be awake, to be taking up the burden of adulthood. And he thinks of the debate that spread across his age: Do we do we help or do we flee? Do we march out of our fortresses and help the humans, help the dwarves, help the others, or do we stay protected? Delwath never doubted. It was his place to march. Now, as he thinks about it, he doesn't really know why, it was something in that moment when he was awakened, that star shouting a warning. He just couldn't stay home and hide, and he never considered the idea that he would stay home, stay in the safety of the elven forests. From the moment he was awakened he he knew he would march. He had to. There was no choice. Sometimes he wonders, you know, why did I do that. But it always felt like the right decision, and despite everything that happened, he's never regretted it.

*The ocean circles, and you can feel the emotions in this entity. Clearly not human, but resonating Delwath's story. The pain, the regret. We were not warned. We did not know what was coming. The water seems to cling heavily to Delwath for a moment. We had no protectors, we had nobody watching over us, we had no divinity. We had to make our own power. And we were young then, and weak. We would have liked a warning as it begins to float away, as the rest of you begin to sink down. There's a shift in the in the ocean. You hear the sort of melody, this low hum begin and colors begin to grow in the ocean life, coral, fish, kelp, whales, starfish. We had no protectors. But we became protectors. You see this image of the ocean full of life and this current, this water sort of flowing over the ocean, flowing across the fish, some of them swimming through this current and growing. beginning to stretch, and their forms shift, growing legs, long legs with long toes, with broad webbing between them, arms, with long hands, with webbing spread out, fins that run down the sides of their arms. Beginning to grow faces. eyes, mouth, stretching out into sort of somewhat humanoid features. We made something to protect.*


DM: The the next image is. yeah. These these people, these fish men and fish women as they stretch and begin to flex and open their eyes and look around. The current swirl around them, and they look to the currents. They look, the current looks to them. and there is something that passes between them. Understanding a bond and the ocean friends and drifts. and as they do. the Murph follow. staying deep, staying, hidden. staying far below the surface. dwelling in the water, dwelling in the deepness. And this sense. as you watch of time passing. people having lives. people building cities, learning to. or being shown how to weave kelp fawns into structures, how to pokes, the coral, to grow, how to tame manta rays. And yet at the same time. There's something very alien about this. There are no temples, there are no. you never see anybody worshiping a God. There are no no writing. They seem to. They seem to be able to speak at great distance without speaking.

DM: And and no. there's no. it's not the sense you get watching this. This isn't just the you know, humans living underwater right? There is something like deeply alien about this culture and something alien about this ocean that is swirling around you now, something it's not. It's neither good nor evil. It's just strange. And yet the emotions that again triggered by dealt with story that wash over you as you watch this are not strange, you know. It's the sense of you know we would. We, too. would go to war to protect this. We, too, see. know what you say when you are warned, and you must. and there's no choice but to fight. And as this image is growing. you see this sort of bitterness, or you feel it's not. You can't see anything, but you feel it. It's like a bitter taste in the water, almost a metallic tang. and even when we did not win we did not give up. This was what we were protecting. This is why we stayed, and the motion swirls around the amongst this protectiveness and this motivation to to do whatever had to be done to keep these people safe. There was a question of sort of probing at you. There were times. Why do? Why did you keep going well, be you were held by grotes Blade, and could have stayed in the memory of your people are turned to safer journeys. Yet you came back Galway. you found the answers to your questions. found a people who would celebrate you for saving they're gods, and yet you didn't stop risen. You are twice renowned among the dwarves for recovering chalice of the room, priest among the Orcs for saving sarcast among the most famous of all dwarves in the current age, and yet. and none could doubt that you had served the duty of your gods. And yet and yet and seeker. you are offered a chance to join the ancient scholars of Tolan and learn the entries to every mystery of the universe. and would only cost 5 years of your life. And yeah. and questioning fingers.

Seeker: Funny you should mention. Okay. why why not join the guild? That seems to have all the answers. you know I saw growing up many, leaving the fastness in search of to aim wealth. even just adventure. But I wasn't interested in that. I wanted answers. I wanted to understand how the world works, and for many years I thought that was the most important thing. and when I encountered that guild I thought they had all the answers. Now I'm not so sure. And I've also replaced something very important about the people that I'm traveling with. which is that they just couldn't do it without me. I. You know it's it's not the magical explosions I create, or my ability to make them larger or smaller or magically help them with their tasks at at critical moments, or turn a demon into a worm. Not my endless knowledge of the arcane. either, without which we'd have no idea really what to do. mostly. I think it's it's my ability to sit down on the beach and pick up what appears to be a random stone and notice some non obvious fact about the local geology, and in that way unlock the key to a puzzle. It's it's It's my curiosity with this group. Couldn't do what we do without right. I think, at at any rate. What use is that anyone else? It seems to be useful for this group of friendly people. And really I just want to keep finding those quests along the side of our journey to pursue. And so I I feel that this fellowship needs me, and I and I need them in that way.

DM: Far you've gotten. I don't know. You've sunk a bit deeper into this swirling mess as that that. The ocean kind of swirls around seeker as he's talking. And and you see you see it. You see images that that form kind of surrounding seekers. memories and stories. And and there's clearly something like, there's there's a part of this that the ocean or that that you're that this, this intelligence that you're interacting with doesn't quite understand. And and you realize, as you as you do like seeker, so far as the first one he's talked about like himself, independent from the group, like being a part of a group like Seeker as an individual and the group as a group. And this is not making sense to the ocean. You realize that it thought all 5 of you were one person.

DM: It seems to speak in the third person. Talk about we. but there is no sense of Pan yet. This isn't a bunch of different people gather. and it's very it sort of boats up to seeker. Curious as he's talking about traveling with a group and being useful to the group, and you you get this sort of deep sense of like. maybe puzzlement as it begins to whirl around seeker, and you begin to sink deeper. trying to understand what it might even mean to be to feel useful to it. Group of people who are not yourself as it waits for somebody else to talk.

Kenzo: Really quickly met a game? are there things that we've that people have said that feel like have been connecting or alienating like what things have been connecting, what things have been alienating so far. I'm asking the fellowship.

DM: So so it definitely was quite in tune to dealt with talking about feeling called to go to, instead of like the idea that he awoke with this. What was that them or telling? Yeah, mandate, to go to war to protect like you couldn't just stay home and let all your. You know generation mates, go to war without you, and it that triggered it to show you images and talk about creating the when it created the mer folk to create people it could. They could protect While we talked about finding about the real home being the blank places on the map, and it sort of that resonated to an extent. But it the. The the story that you got at the very beginning was this, intelligence was driven from somewhere like thousands of years ago. and fled to Tagar. And it's a refugee. And so the idea of wanting to seek new places kind of wasn't exactly. It wasn't quite as resident as the idea of being a protector. But you also get the sense. It's partly not what resonates with it. It's partly judging you. Are you worthy to pass through this barrier. Are you going to help the Merfoke? Bye, bye.

Delwath: So Dallas has another one, but I wanna let other people go.
DM: Yeah, first.

Riswynn: And when Nate asked Briswyn why, what wasn't she done with the fame and the achievements that she'd done thus far for her gods, she was thinking about how she sits around with her armor. and how back home he she first realized the ways that she could be of service to the Bahrazel and her people through the mending skills that she had the that manifested. First, as she became connected to the power she was channeling from her gods. and she always sneakers with her armor whenever they whenever we're sitting around at a campsite because you repair it, and then it breaks again. It's constantly in use, and that there's always a need for mending. And the history of the dwarven people and the peoples of Talgar is long, and there are missing pieces that need to be found and reconnected. and she needed to find her people's shield, her people's cup. and she met other people who needed to be reconnected. You know the the giant with his eyes. and there are pieces that constantly need mending. The work of repair is never done. There's always a new. a new task. Which.

Riswynn: Comes naturally to her reconnecting with the past.

DM: As as risman is talking about the the need to owe. there's always something that needs mending. There is this flash of an image of what looks like a city or parts of a city. a great forest of kalt growing from the bottom of the ocean. But there's pieces of it that have rotted and are collapsed in amongst themselves, and it was a great gash that runs like a crevasse into the floor of the ocean that runs through the middle of this image, and you get this intense wave of failure and the sense that it's not quite ready to it, doesn't. It's not, doesn't know you quite well enough to talk about what needs mending and where it but you definitely get the sense like it resonates very strongly with this, and it feels this intelligence, they it feels they found. And there is damage in the world because of this. but it retreats. It's sort of the currents pull into their shell a little bit as when talks about this, and the ocean grows still for a moment as it kind of waits.

Delwath: Dealt with. says starts by sort of saying. if the world had been different I might have stayed there in the forest to the north with the Kozula. If I had fallen from the sky in their forest and not met anybody else. perhaps that would have been where I stayed. The but I didn't fall from the sky there. I didn't not meet anyone else. and he sort of talks about how his time a way in the Shadow realm left him a band not disconnected from his Elven family. He had given up on his Elven age mates he had given up on ever returning to the Elven lands like a normal elf. and he found companions amongst the humans and dwarves and halflings. and having found them and traveled with them, and learned their strengths and their weaknesses grown to care for them, for Kenzo's stories and tattoos and swift fists and wellbees, map making and excitement for new places and fondness for dangerous beasts with sharp razor claws and ax beeks. Yeah. And seekers obsessions and curiosity and dangerous lack of sense. And strong sense of self preservation which go together you know, and Risen's faith and ability to mend things and heal things, and that when he found the Kazooa that was felt. It was. It was too late. He had. He had found other people he was loyal to. and could not abandon them, even though the forest to the north did feel like a place that could be a new home. and loyalty drew him back.

DM: You sense the current begin to kind of reach out slightly with this. almost this hesitating kind of touch, this hesitating, creeping out. finding some. It's not clear of hope. Hope sorry.

Delwath: Okay, just add one. Just for the current, too. I wanna add, this sense of delta will kind of explain the sense of the whole being more than the sum of its parts. Right? There is a thing that is the group of us that is not just the individuals of us. and part of that is also what Drew dealt with back. It's the Comp. It's the Dunmari fellowship with an emphasis on the word fellowship that that is also something he is loyal to just sort of, anyway.

DM: No, no, no, yeah, yeah. I get it. so it it hesitantly begins to creep out a little bit, and the current picks up slightly from where it had gone, very still with this this memory, and it it it it's not. It's not clear whether hope is exactly the right word, or whether it's just a sense that maybe there is. See something to grab onto, something to to look for. the the sense that what? What it seems to be latching onto as Dell was talking. Is this sense that? But again you can, you can be loyal to something that's not yourself. and that this is something that probably maybe never would have heard to it. Because doesn't really think of other people. I mean, it doesn't really think of itself as it doesn't think of individuals as individuals. And as you say, that there's this kind of opening up this kind of of query, this kind of stands as it's just kind of trying to look at each of you. And and and yeah, to try and understand. Like. would you be loyal to it? You don't have to answer this with a story, but it's it's clearly sort of asking this as a question. You are so alien from us. And yet. would you help us.

Seeker: I just try picturing in my mind it was honestly a low point, for seeker is cloak and tatters covered in the demonic bile sinking through the waters. but then, being awoken by his companions at the moment of purging the sickness and cleansing the waters of Keikia. that right the ocean spirit. so just picturing the good deed that we get, that we did to heal the sacred waters of the sacred ocean.

DM: You can tell that this is this has perked it up. this is what it's looking for. this is as it looks around to the rest of you. This is query on its mind. Is this something you do.

Wellby: By way of saying yes will be remembers a time and shares the memory many, many years ago. of him and a half dozen other halfling kids gleefully jumping off the side of the boat to cut the fishing nets where a dolphin. who was coming into them to steal the fish that they were fishing to eat. but nonetheless had gotten stuck in the nets. and that the half dozen of them are so splashing in the water, cutting the nets free. making sure that that the Dolphin got swimming free in a way.

DM: It again sort of gets you. You can sense this sort of growing feeling of possibility drifting on the current as it swirls around Kenzo Dalwith, and risen. Yes, this is true.

Kenzo: And so like starts imagining all the treasure that we've taken.
Seeker: Last year.

Kenzo: Under that we've we've liberated over these years mountain of wealth now, and mineral resources from the ocean. Now. Penzo, pencil actually just is, is like literally, since he's been in this part of the of the world at this particular ocean. has never felt such a deep sense of like calm and peace. and is reflecting on the interactions with the but what's the other giant? Not the the giant. We were just with last last episode.
Delwath: The starboard.
Kenzo: Stonebourn, but the.
DM: Oh, yeah. kazero.
Kenzo: Kazora, right? And basically, you know, kind of similarly, like the really deep, genuine way in which he wants to learn and also share about the beauty of of the ocean. Learn to listen to it just, you know, very, very deep sense of humility, but to learn, but also like a It's sort of like plugging into, like the the universal, like vastness, and like love of that of that ocean that the Stoneborn, the stoneborn, also possesses, but that Kenzo also. you know, feels like a very sincere connection to humility, but also an E, like an eagerness to serve basically like, let me. You know. How can I? How can I also share about the wonder of the ocean to my people? So he he kind of immerses himself in that, deep in, in various sincere intention that he. without specifically being like, Oh, yeah, I'm like setting up like a you know, some monasteries. We're gonna teach people through this like specific mechanism. which is, which is a noble and and you know, honest thing, but just more the underlying feeling behind behind, you know.

DM: It. it seems to be nearly satisfied as it looks to the last 2 of you. You're muted, Kate.
Riswynn: Thank you. briswyn remembers the people of the Rainbow, those those Orcs that had been forced to run from oppression, and had found a safe place, and then that place was no longer safe. and she remembers fortifying daily that place to keep the threat that they I'm getting to know the people she was protecting, as she stayed with them long during that work.

Delwath: I  mean, I actually, I'll briefly add delevs to thoughts. one. The Miswati is that the the lost thinking of the the the lost spirits, the lost gods of the of the Denoqua, and his seeking to free them from where they had been lost. But also a time from the Great War when one of dealt with March to war for all kinds of reasons, but he thinks back to the great forests of the elves now. many of which have become forests of nightmares. Right? I mean, am I? I have that right? Right? The forest of nightmares? Yeah. And his sense of failure. That's the elves could not do more to protect those places. and that he would give quite a lot to restore them, or to have been able to protect them.

DM: So as you're all speaking the the ocean, the current goes still for a moment. and all is briefly quiet. and then you hear a humming noise began. and in the currents the whispers. this is the story of Buruli and Gazancoa and the jade. and how we failed. and there's an image that the water below you clears, and you're looking as if through a mirror. But clearly not the present. This is a memory. and you can see this city that you saw briefly before, of a brief image of the Kalprod in the the you know the the the city dead now alive, bright and colorful coral growing amongst the calp. blooming Murph swimming and tending to it. bumme. carefully coaxing these strange fruits to grow bud off the couch. letting them drift on the sea, to be eaten, and carry some strange essence of the memories of the people and the magic of the sentient ocean across the world. the garden of name. a memorial of a kind, but also a place of reliving where the stories of all who had crossed through the ocean drifted in the currents and could be found again. and the power that the the way in which, as this green lights drifted through the ocean, the am the power of this whispering garden just was that much stronger as them? Magic of this piece of jade illuminated the forests. But something changed coming of the jade. Now you see an image of of a Murph. a warrior I'm looks. There's almost a a yeah forget that he's he looks. I mean, his face looks like I sort of described before. It looks almost like a fish. His eyes are sort of bulging a little bit, and he's bald, and it's got a fin running down the top of his head almost like fins, where, as years are stretching back powerful strong. But as you watch, you can see the way he looks at the garden with. and V with jealousy. not content. And then the whispers can't see anything happening. Everything is inky and black. The mirror goes dark. But you hear this name, this word Gosencoa. and sacrifices and promises are made. and power springs to life in the heart of Barruthi. and then the war in the middle of the city. in the center of the great palace. that once how is the names that was once the center of this garden, that where? the where the kelp grew, into this twisting, spirally building of 50 feet tall, stretching halfway to the surface. Almost in the middle of that a rift creatures flooding out from the plain of water creatures long. who have long held that the ocean is theirs to control. and this intruder must be the intruder being. The sentient ocean must be corralled and controlled. threatening to spread across the deeps until and then you see the ocean gathering its strength, and forming a bubble around on me. Omi is the name of the Murfolk City. and this deep sense of sadness as they watched the Merfolk. who are not part of this attack who could not flee. trapped, enslaved. ragged, back to the plane of water. But the contagion was stopped. brutally fled through the portal again. leaving only a small number to watch on this side. and now lives, dwells the way is sealed. the the. the the portal is sealed by the ocean, but it can do no more. It cannot assault. cannot pass through. for if the elementals. the its enemies in the plain of letter got a hold of even a fraction of its essence. They would get a hold of all of it. and so it stays. The rock cannot spread, but nor can it be healed until Beru's power is taken from him. and the magic of the jade that holds this portal open is brought back to this plane. and as you see this image. the story unfold in images and words. Below you, you can see the events. the fighting little vignettes of what you think are memories of the ocean. Aha! The chaos at the beginning as many murfolk fled. and some were chased and hunted by Baruli's pulse warriors. the desperate struggle to keep this crack, this rift that began to spread from growing and to contain it. and stop that Beru's war from spreading beyond Omi. And you see this image of many other merfroque cities spread across the endless ocean. This is not all of them. but this is one that was gear to us. for it was where and you the the sense you have is, I mean, the Merf folk don't really have a religion in any sort of traditional sense, but to the extent to which they were, you know. you know, had that sort of mystic understanding. It was this sort of garden, of memories, of of names of. you know. pending this vision of their past and their future. And then you see briefly a question. You you you sense the last question. how does this story end? How does this end for us and for you? As the violence of this vision of war and destruction and rot and corruption fades. and for a moment there's peace. And now you can begin to see the the water below you has become clear. and you see now the city of the ruined city of Omi below you. That the rotted bits of Jane, the cracked foundations, this this rift, this you're still high enough up, you sense that you're not quite through. But you see, what is there now? And you see you hear the ocean asking. How can this be? Better? Not just. It's asking, not just about it's story, but your story is, where where does this story go? And you end.

