---
{title: Notes on Elven Society}
---

## On Wealth

synthesizing the email discussion about material abundance, intellectual property, what elves see as wealth, etc.

the basic framework is that elves are capable, via magic, of growing nearly anything, but this is not necessarily simple or easy in all cases. growing enough food and providing simple clothes, space to live, basic necessities, for all elves is the first priority, and except when under attack or otherwise disrupted from the normal balance of things, this is always possible and a fundamental aspect of elven civilization. there is no poverty in elven cities that said, this does not mean there are no differences in wealth. while elves find no reason to accumulate coin or gems in their raw form, they do value new things that are brought into the world, whether ideas/songs/stories/poems or physical things of beauty, or of practical value (although I think elven culture would usually tend towards beauty). building on the idea from the sisila tree fruit backstory from Delwath, one thing that determines wealth is that it is a privilege to be allowed to use rare materials. so you can't buy sisila fruit with money, but if you are recognized as a talented chef you are given one to bake with. exactly how this kind of resource allocation is managed in elven society can be handwaved a bit, but the key vibes aspect is that there are wealthy/non-wealthy elves in some sense, but wealth is measured in what you create. so a "poor" jeweler may often work with plain metals, and a "rich" jeweler may have the opportunity to craft in mithril. but there is also a "how far have your creations spread" aspect, and this is how you "get rich" - a "poor" jeweler who produces amazing designs in bronze and copper may get asked to make something with gold or mithral. this ties in to intellectual property too, as derivative work is less valued that new work

I think the details of this are a bit unnecessary to really know, but the implications in game would be:

1. elves would sometimes trade for material goods, as material abundance does not necessarily mean lack of scarcity entirely - but they wouldn't _need_ to do it
2. you still have a kind of status hierarchy based around perceived value of the new things you bring into the world. as a side note, this sets up a bit of dichotomy where "creators" are higher status than "doers". So Delwath, as a solider and quartermaster, would not necessarily be seen as a high status elf (although perhaps this is also a consequence of the great war - in the absence of war perhaps he would have been an amazing chef). i'm not sure this is exactly right, so maybe there is kind of a second, orthogonal hierarchy that is more oriented around caretaker roles, so you can be high status because you are a skilled commander or a talented wizard and not necessarily need to create something new
3. elven cities would feel weird to other races - there aren't markets in the usual sense, people aren't really buying food. there would be trees with fruit just kind of there, for example. maybe there would be occasional art shows, and lots of songs and storytelling, and things like that that would have subtle undercurrents of competition noticeably primarily to other elves

## On Governance and Society

the basic idea here I think is a bit more established, around the nurturer/caretaker distinction, the unifiers and the "trial of unity" idea, and the idea of each ka as kind of a collective unit that figures out how to reach consensus on their own the game implications are, I think:

1. you can't go to an elven city and say "take me to your leader" - there is no galadriel or elrond to speak to. however, I think that most elven settlements would have some people who are the outerward face of the community to visitors. perhaps with explicit titles like "Caretaker So-and-So".
2. if you are asking something of "elves" it should be a little unclear how decisions are made, although there is an opportunity to create a way to participate in a "trial by unity" if desired
3. there should probably not be a lot of internal, obvious factions in elvish society, except during times of debate and consensus-finding, and then those factions would be temporary. this is probably not a universal rule - decision points have to start somewhere and may start with a factional period. but once it is resolved, it is resolved.