---
tags: [session-note]
name: Dunmari Frontier - Session 125
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 125
realWorldDate: 2025-06-03
DR: 1749-06-27
DR_end: 1749-06-27
players: [Delwath, Kenzo, Wellby]
tagline: in which the party confronts suspicion and seeds revolution
descTitle: Return to Chardon
title: Dunmari Frontier - Session 125
---
# Dunmari Frontier - Session 125

>[!info]  Return to Chardon: in which the party confronts suspicion and seeds revolution
> *Featuring: [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)*
> *In Taelgar: Jun 27, 1749 DR*
> *On Earth: Tuesday Jun 03, 2025*
> *Location: [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>)*

The party returns to a riot-torn [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>), connects with resistance leaders, and undergoes a tense interrogation.
## Session Info
### Summary
- The [Dunmar Fellowship](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/dunmar-fellowship.md>), leaving [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) behind on [Vindristjarna](<../../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>), covertly re-enters crisis-stricken [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>) using shapeshifting magic, observing severe damage, martial law, and a fractured power structure after [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>)’s downfall.
- They reconnect with [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s old friend [Xavier](<../../../people/chardonians/xavier.md>), learning firsthand of famine and chaos, and share hospitality with his struggling family in the [slums](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chalyte-levels.md>).
- At the The Cackling Swan tavern, the party meets resistance leaders [Andros](<../../../people/chardonians/andros.md>), Orsino, and Red, mediates heated debate over destroying [chalyte](<../../../things/materials/chalyte.md>) refineries, and guides them toward organized, peaceful change.
- [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)'s magical lynx delivers a letter from Tiberius, the Windcaller of the naval ship [Auratan's Pride](<../../../things/ships/auratan-s-pride.md>). The party approaches his ship as seagulls but is immediately trapped in a powerful magical cage upon revealing themselves.
- Tiberius interrogates the group, pressing for proof they are not clone imposters or servants of [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>), amid rising distrust over magical disasters and lost artifacts.
- The companions ultimately agree to temporarily surrender their magic items and undergo psychic inspection to prove their intentions, convincing Tiberius of their honesty and gaining his guarded support.
- Tiberius shares critical insights on Chardon's [chalyte politics](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/politics-of-chalyte-chardonian-empire.md>) and factions, warning of corruption and advising the party on negotiating with the [city’s ruler](<../../../people/chardonians/mitus-verina-auratan.md>).

### Timeline
- Jun 27, 1749 DR, late morning: Arrive in [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>). Speak with [Xavier](<../../../people/chardonians/xavier.md>) and his family in the [Chalyte Levels](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chalyte-levels.md>). Send a lynx messenger to the [Magistros](<../../../people/chardonians/mitus-verina-auratan.md>). 
-  Jun 27, 1749 DR, afternoon: Meet [Andros](<../../../people/chardonians/andros.md>), Red, and Orsino, members of the [Eightfold Flame](<../../../groups/chardonian-organizations/eightfold-flame.md>), at  The Cackling Swan, discuss revolutionary politics. Receive message to meet Tiberius, a Windcaller in the [Magistros](<../../../people/chardonians/mitus-verina-auratan.md>)' service.
-  Jun 27, 1749 DR, evening: Convince Tiberius they are not clones or possessed by [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) or in league with [The Cleansed](<../../../groups/the-cleansed.md>). 
## Narrative

*[Stories of the Freed Prisoners of the Cleansed](<../tales-and-stories/stories-of-the-freed-prisoners-of-the-cleansed.md>) opens the session.*

We begin on [Vindristjarna](<../../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>), seventy miles from Chardon, as the party contemplated their arrival in [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>), given that [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) still had prices on their heads, accused of causing the Pandemonium Incursion in Chardon. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), busy with research on the [Elemental Plane of Fire](<../../../cosmology/energy-realms/elemental-plane-of-fire.md>), used his powerful transformation magic to turn [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), as well as a simulacrum of [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) for support should it be needed, into inconspicuous birds. 

As shapeshifted birds, the group flew over [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>), scouting the [North Bank](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/north-bank.md>). They surveyed the scorched [Chalyte Levels](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chalyte-levels.md>), the slums where [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) grew up, and the collapsed and burning [Riverside Quarter](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/riverside-quarter.md>) and the adjacent refineries of the [Basin](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/ragwater-basin.md>), all showing signs of recent unrest. Soaring over the [South Bank](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/south-bank.md>), they noted the disturbance seems to be -- at least now -- largely limited to north of the [Chasa](<../../../gazetteer/major-rivers/chasa-nahadi-watershed/chasa.md>), although the party-as-seagulls does note that [Fausto's Tower](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/fausto-s-tower.md>) seems to have been entered, explored, and is now guarded closely. 

Landing near the [Foundry Market](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/foundry-market.md>), the party shed their avian forms in a narrow alley; [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) then guided  them to the cramped apartment of his old associate, [Xavier](<../../../people/chardonians/xavier.md>). Inside the single-room dwelling, the party was greeted by [Xavier](<../../../people/chardonians/xavier.md>)’s weary mother [Francisca](<../../../people/chardonians/francisca.md>) and his undernourished sister [Adina](<../../../people/chardonians/adina.md>). [Xavier](<../../../people/chardonians/xavier.md>), a sturdy brawler, seemed taken aback by [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s return, remarking on the strangeness and fortune of his journey. The party offered warmth and food, with [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) conjuring ingredients for a simple, aromatic meal from his magical supplies. As they ate, conversation turned to the recent riots and troubles. [Xavier](<../../../people/chardonians/xavier.md>) recounted the fighting, and futility that had set in among the [Eightfold Flame](<../../../groups/chardonian-organizations/eightfold-flame.md>) as all the leaders of the resistance seem to have vanished all at once. 

Amid shared stories and humble hospitality, [Adina](<../../../people/chardonians/adina.md>) expressed curiosity for the wider world, eager to her about far-off adventures, which [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) happily supplied, telling of distant lands and dragons slain. As the afternoon worn on, the party made plans to meet [Xavier](<../../../people/chardonians/xavier.md>)'s friend [Andros](<../../../people/chardonians/andros.md>), who was more deeply involved in the [Eightfold Flame](<../../../groups/chardonian-organizations/eightfold-flame.md>). Before departing, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) sent his magical lynx to bring a message to the [Magistros](<../../../people/chardonians/mitus-verina-auratan.md>), asking to speak about recent events. 

That evening, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), accompanied by [Xavier](<../../../people/chardonians/xavier.md>), entered The Cackling Swan tavern to meet [Andros](<../../../people/chardonians/andros.md>). Their presence drew immediate attention; the room fell silent in awe and wonder at this strange, powerful travelers, as they made their way to a table where [Andros](<../../../people/chardonians/andros.md>), a well-known, broad-shouldered worker with a burn-scarred arm, met with two associates: Orsino, a rugged, scarred laborer who informally organized day workers, and Red, a fiery-haired crane operator who spoke for the barricaded workers.

After brief introductions, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) expressed their intent to support the resistance and asked about the local situation and needs. Red responded with urgency, proclaiming that with the visitors’ power, they could finally destroy the [chalyte](<../../../things/materials/chalyte.md>) refineries—a proposal Orsino pushed back against, fearing for livelihoods tied to the refineries’ operation. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) steered the conversation to long-term solutions, encouraging the group to consider not just rebellion, but the creation of structures—unions or guilds—that could shift power into workers’ hands for generations.The conversation revealed fragmentation among the resistance: leaders were few, and while Red commanded trust among the crane workers, broader organization was lacking. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and his companions counseled these leaders to begin organizing, identifying trusted figures from each sector in preparation for larger negotiations. As the evening closed, [Andros](<../../../people/chardonians/andros.md>) quietly asked for guidance, fearing that unrestrained violence would follow if clear alternatives were not presented. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) affirmed their support, promising help and urging them to plan not just for the uprising, but for the future afterward.

At this moment, a silvery lynx strode into the busy tavern, halting conversation as it delivered a sealed letter. The party accepted the message, which invited them to meet aboard the [Auratan's Pride](<../../../things/ships/auratan-s-pride.md>), a ship in the Chardonian navy anchored in harbor, to prove their intentions to Tiberius, a Windcaller and ally to the [Magistros](<../../../people/chardonians/mitus-verina-auratan.md>). The party quickly organized to leave and meet Tiberius, but with the lynx returned, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) first sent a short letter to Marius Cusico, the general of the [Chardonian Legion](<../../../groups/chardonian-organizations/chardonian-legion.md>) who had recently been freed from the control of the [Crown of Purity](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/crown-of-purity.md>), offering guidance and emotional support from others who shared similar experiences.

Eager to reach the [Auratan's Pride](<../../../things/ships/auratan-s-pride.md>), the party avoided local ferrymen and instead assumed the shapes of seagulls, descending upon the warship from above before reverting to their true forms on the deck. There, they drew the immediate attention of the crew. A tall, commanding figure—Tiberius —stood ready near the mast, gripping a staff topped with sapphire. The instant the party revealed themselves, Tiberius raised his staff, invoking a spell. [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) attempted a countermeasure, but Tiberius’s will held firm and the spell persisted. Instantly, a twenty-foot shimmering cage of force enclosed the group. Despite the magical barrier, the party remained composed, seeking to negotiate with Tiberius and establish terms of trust. 

Tiberius, sent by [Mitus Verina Auratan](<../../../people/chardonians/mitus-verina-auratan.md>) to establish the truth of [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)'s role in the Pandemonium Incursion in Chardon, and whether these individuals are indeed the true Delwath or Kenzo, or might be additional clones under the control of [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) or working with the [The Cleansed](<../../../groups/the-cleansed.md>), begins his interrogation. Recognizing the suspicion and the difficulty of the situation, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) explained their history with the clones and the defeat of [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) and [Apollyon](<../../../people/historical-figures/drankorian-emperors/apollyon.md>), whose influence had long corrupted [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>). While being circumspect about the current location and fate of the [Crown of Purity](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/crown-of-purity.md>), the party sought to reassure Tiberius of their intentions. 

Unconvinced and cautious, Tiberius suggested moving the ship outside city waters for increased safety, empowered by his magical command of wind, and anxious to ensure none among the group were servants or successors to [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>). After some discussion, the party agreed to submit to Tiberius's precautions. They removed and deposited their magical items for inspection and assented to a psychic reading of their intentions and histories. Tiberius questioned each in turn about their connection to [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>), searching for evidence of treachery or hidden allegiance. The party, with care and candor, made clear that [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) had deceived them as he had deceived so many, and that they had acted in opposition to his designs—enduring betrayal themselves before ultimately defeating him in combat. 

Satisfied and relieved, Tiberius promised to arrange a meeting with the [Magistros](<../../../people/chardonians/mitus-verina-auratan.md>), warning the party that he was currently angry with the [University of Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/university-of-chardon.md>) and the [Society of the Open Scroll](<../../../groups/chardonian-organizations/society-of-the-open-scroll.md>) for missing [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>)'s rise to power and the inflitration of the Hetaeri Magica by [The Cleansed](<../../../groups/the-cleansed.md>). He also shared his perspective on the tangled politics of [chalyte](<../../../things/materials/chalyte.md>), describing the Windcallers, the Hetaeri Magica, and the [Chalyte Oligarchs of Chardon](<../../../groups/chardonian-organizations/chalyte-oligarchs-of-chardon.md>). We end as the group split up for the evening, with [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) remaining on the [Auratan's Pride](<../../../things/ships/auratan-s-pride.md>), while [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) returned to [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>) to find a halfling inn for news. 


