---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Archives Letter
---

(originally found by Servius; copy given to party in [Session 38 (DuFr)](<../session-notes/session-38-dufr.md>))

To Captain Avani, commander of the [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>) guard, dedicat of [Aagir](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/aagir.md>), and noble warrior, greetings and the bond of friendship.

Let us rejoice in the power of the gods, for though I fear dark times are to come, the light of [Jeevali](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/jeevali.md>) and her Divine Family will always guide our path through the shadows. I write with urgent news and in need of your immediate aid. With the blessing of [Aagir](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/aagir.md>) and the swift horses of [Chidya](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/chidya.md>) we have received news from [Raven's Hold](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/raven-s-hold.md>) of a great host of [Hobgoblins](<../../../species/goblinoids/hobgoblins.md>), most of the Death Moon clan but with many allies, trolls and ogres among them, moving through the passes. In my prayers I feel a growing premonition that [Raven's Hold](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/raven-s-hold.md>) will fall, for against a force so large what castle could hope to hold?

The wisdom of [Laka](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/laka.md>) councils we prepare for the worst. If the northern forts fall, [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) cannot hold for long. The gods will be with us and we prepare to ride to glory and death, and with [Aagir](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/aagir.md>)'s blessing victory. But we must give thought to the risks. We guard in [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) more than a few treasures of the ancient age, magic from [Drankor](<../../../history/drankorian-era/drankor.md>) itself, that would I not have fall into the hands of our enemies. The rumors say a new leader has arisen, uniting the hobgoblin clans into a single army, and such a leader with the might of Drankorian magic behind them would be formidable indeed.

I write to warn you that riders are coming, soon I hope, with those most valuable and ancient treasures that cannot aid us in the battles to come. Our hope now is in speed and the quiet shadows of Adra's grace. I ask that you provide what aid and support available at [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), fresh horses and trail rations, for I have asked my riders to travel swiftly and quietly to the coast, somewhere out of the way and unlikely to matter in the wars to come. [Darba](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/coastal-dunmar/darba/darba.md>) comes to mind, although I trust your judgment of the distant west more than my own.

Should war sweep across all of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), to even the distant western borders of our land, at least there they may flee, to Chardon, or Illoria, or wherever the gods take them. But I pray daily it will not come to this, and after the war we may safely recover what we now send away from some hidden sea cave or secret cellar.

I trust the gods will guide your will and grant you wisdom and foresight in this matter, as in all things. Keep us in your prayers, for war is coming for us all.

Yours in the blessing of [Jeevali](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/jeevali.md>) and the grace of the gods, from Hada, dedicat of [Sonkar](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/sonkar.md>), honored of [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), guardian of the Dharajun treasury.