---
{title: Mockers Notes}
---

The Mockers:

       Anyhow, as for mockers.  Imagine the mockers like this:  all of the
mafia houses throughout the entire US start working together, organizing
their activities and systematically go about their business together.
That is essentially what the mockers are.  At the highest level, the
mockers are run by three mind-linked Kenku, essentially three guys
thinking as one mind.  There's a whole big old chain of command, with
plenty of people not really knowing what their position.  Nobody really
knows how big the organization is because the public doesn't realize that
the mockers are a continent wide organization- everyone likes to think
that their local mockers are either a) not the real thing- just people
using the name, or b) all that there is.  For instance, people living in
Chardon don't think that the mockers extend outside the city.  Most
members of the organization (the lower level people) also don't realize
the extent of the thing.  Because of the multiple wings- thievery,
assassination, robbery- people working one job will only hear rumors of
the people working another job- at a lower level, each wing of the mockers
is a separate organization, with different contacts, safe houses and
fences.
       Also, nobody, *nobody* _NOBODY_ knows who the head of the mockers
is, so I am counting on you not to reveal this to your players under any
conditions, even if they are just curious after the campaign has ended.
It's a mocker thing- nobody knows.  The people who the three guys contact
are communicated with telepathically, so nobody really knows who they are,
just a voice in the head.
	Mockers run all crime.  Name a crime, and it was done by the
mockers.  There is however, some truth to rumors of different factions in
the following sense:  There is a large degree of regional autonomy to the
mockers.  The guy who's essentially in charge of Marsember doesn;t really
give a damn about Chardon.  Not all of the mockers are Kenku, but a large
proportion are Kenku, or are Kenku who go around shape changed into humans
most of the time.  And if you are a Kenku, you re not necessarily a
mocker- not every Kenku is one.  But the mockers have come to rely heavily
on the Kenku information network, including the continental overflights,
which are another major Kenku thingy.  The constant surveillance of
everything did not end with the end of the third age, quite to the
contrary, the flights continue with some regularity, allowing mockers to
track, among other things, troop movement, caravan movement and shipping.
	People at large know that a lot of Kenku are thieves- that in part
contributes to the general mistrust of Kenku, but most people simply  do
not suspect or even imagine possible the size and number of the mocker
organization.
 
	Here's a bottom-up look at this most venerable institution.  The
mockers approach you, not the other way around.  You're just some small
time crook pulling a couple of scams in Chardon, then one day, a half
dozen men, all of whom are identical, and are dressed in matching gray
cloaks, whisk you off through a back door in a wine cellar and down a
flight of stairs.  You are ushered through a maze of hallways until you
come to a locked door at the end of one.  nobody takes your weapons or
anything, they don't even touch you.  At the end of the hallways, someone
says to go through the door.  You go through and on the other side is a
man in voluminous black robes, nobody else in the room.  he gestures for
you to sit down and "suggests" that it might be a good idea if you were to
join the mockers.
	He explains the truth of the mockers, what the organization really
is.  And the truth he tells is this:  the mockers only exist in Chardon,
or Irebor, or wherever he happens to be, and that all the rest are small
time thieves guilds using the name to frighten off competition.  Your
given a contact, a couple of guys to go to if you want a job or have any
information to volunteer.  he gives you a safe house- a place to head to
if there's no where else to go.  And he gives you a job to do- break in
and steal something, kill somebody, guard somebody, bribe somebody, extort
money, anything, you're given a job.  And then you get sent back up to the
world above, still wondering just what exactly the mockers are, what the
deal with these wacky identical people are, and how it is possible that
some sort of subterrainian complex exists underneath the city.
 	So you work a couple of years, you do a lot of jobs, and finally,
one day, a bunch of identical people come up and bring you back down under
the city again.  It is explained that the mockers are an international
organization, with affiliates- more like alliances than branches.  If you
have proven yourself worthy, you move to a training stage.  You don't go
onto the surface for another year, all that time is spent studying,
working, training for your field of expertise- locks, safes, climbing,
killing, daggers, swords, staffs, saps, waterfront work, disguise,
espionage, anything.  After this training period (which most mockers don't
go through- only the ones who have shown serious dedication and
commitment) you get sent out for a field assignment- someplace far away.
if you make it there and back, you are accepted as a full mocker.  Being a
full mocker means you have a long list of contacts, a list of places to
stay, of people who owe favors, of safe houses and supply caches.  The
down side of being a full mocker is that you cannot ever leave the
organization.  You have become a career criminal.
	You spend fifteen or twenty years at this sort of thing, and by
the end of that, it's not too likely you are still alive.  If you are
still alive, you go to the deep school.  A quarter mile under Chardon lies
the deep school, in which the upper echelons of mockers are trained.  In
the fourth age, these level mockers, all of whom are Kenku, train their
telepathy skills, their shape shifting abilities and their physical
skills.  At the end of this period, you can go a number of ways:  you go
bureaucratic, and start helping to run the organization- you become the
guy in black robes who talks to the novices, or get some other post.  This
is where most people go.  Twenty five years experience with the mockers
makes you have a pretty good idea of how to run things.  Or there's the
second choice- you get sent back out as a master field agent.  You get the
hard jobs, the really hard jobs.  The do or die jobs which put your life
on the line.  Or the deep cover, five year long plant as a member of
court, just so the mockers have the capacity to assassinate whatever king
or diplomat they want, whenever they want.  And if you survive- you
haven't been killed or gone mad under the pressure, if you survive, then
you get optioned for gray man status.  Only about half the candidates
survive the transformation process.  And that's how you get down to three
dozen gray men in an organization which numbers itself in the hundreds of
thousands.
 
	So that's basically the progression of being a mocker.  As a
player, you'd probably be one of the guys in that fifteen year period of
doing serious jobs.  Most of the people who call themselves mockers aren't
in that period, and never get there, these are the small time crooks, the
petty thieves and others who actually end up in jail.  Full mockers don't
ever end up in jail, they do the job or they die trying to do the job.
 
	As a full mocker you have access to a *lot* of resources.  One of
the best libraries in the world, huge storerooms of mundane equipment and
a sort of "lending library" of magical items which can be had if need is
shown.  You never have to worry about a place to sleep, or where your next
meal is coming from, the mockers take care of all of that.  There's just
one simple cost:  your whole life.  Nobody retires from the mockers, you
either make it to the top, or you die along the way.  it's a harsh view of
life, but it has made the mockers what they are today:  the largest and
most powerful international organization in existence.  (Rai may dispute
this, but I stand by my words)
 
	It sounds like mockers are always doing mocker jobs, but this
isn't really true, you have a whole lot of down time.  You pull a month of
serious work and you have four with nothing.  So a large number of mockers
are adventurers, with the skills you need to survive in a hostile
wilderness, Mockers make great traveling companions (nobody, of course,
knows that they are mockers)
 
	Anyhow, that's the mocker life.  One of the previous emails I sent
dealt at length with what the mocker organization does and stands for.
And more, undoubtedly, will follow after this.  Hope this all helps.
 
	The way I see it, we need to get all of this hard copy, spread it
out and organize it, then rearrange the stuff on disk to match what we
have in hand.  I just can't deal with editing and changing around on the
computer, ultimately, I have to have hard copy to really make decent
changes and keep track of everything.
 
 Schwartz,
       here's my question: I agree that in order for the mockers to be the
 strongest international organization, that it would have to have
life-long,
 loyal-till-death members. But, what exactly are they loyal too? What are
they
 pledging their lives to? and also, are all of the high-up mockers Kenku,
 because it so happens that only Kenku can make it that far, or is there
some
 other racial selection that takes place earlier? okay, just wondering.

               -Dave

	Right.  ummm, loyal till death.  This is a sort of a problem,
since Kenku are known for not being loyal to anything.  they are pledging
their lives to the one thing that appeals to Kenku:  themselves.  They are
pledging their lives for the glory and power of the Kenku race.  In the
opinions of the Mockers near the top, and even a lot who aren't near the
top, but are in the mockers, the mockers are what the Kenku are meant to
do- the mockers are the manifestation of the collective spirit of the
Kenku- that the power and influence of the mockers is the manifest destiny
that is owed to the Kenku people.  This idea, however, is one that has
only been held recently- that is, during the fourth age.  before that
time, people were loyal to death because, if they broke down under
pressure and went against the mockers, they would be killed.  On the other
hand, hard work and loyalty would be rewarded with fabulous riches and a
life of ease outside of actually doing the jobs.  I hope that explains
sufficiently.  The loyalty comes from a blend of racial pride, fear of
repercussions, and great rewards for loyalty.  Besides that, just ask
yourself, why is someone loyal to the mafia?  You always feel like you owe
them something, and nothing you can do can repay what they do for you.
  For the racial selection thing, non-kenku just don't go past the fifteen
year period.  Sure, humans can be powerful mockers, high ranking field
agents, but the fact that Kenku are telepathic, and shapeshifters, and
able to fly, really means that they've got a lot of things going for them
that humans don't, so most humans never manage to get too far.  Still,
some jobs just have to be done by humans, so there are lots of humans.
There are also a lot of humans retained as staff- as librarians, or mages,
or weapons instructors.

Gray Men:

Umm, gray man stuff.  Right.  See, the thing with gray man is that
not all Kenku can do it.  In fact, very, every few can, there's probably
under forty in the whole world.  The way you become a gray man is to
undergo this ritual ceremony thing, the details of which are a closely
guarded secret (read:  the gm can make them up if anyone goes through it)
in which certain icons of Vorshitaal are used to transform the person.  A
couple of things happen when you do this:  the gray man gets his
consciousness in a new and different spot on the astral plane.  The gray
man also gets a totally new body, a sort of proto-Kenku with no true form.
See, most Kenku shapeshift and come back to their real form, most Kenku
find it annoying to stay shapeshifted in one form that is not their own
for more than say a month or two.  But gray men have no true form, sure,
they have a few faces which they use out of habit, but they have no actual
form to which they must return.  The form which they inhabit, as well as
the power to hide consciousnesses comes directly from Eru- that's why it's
not discoverable by true or normal magical means- it's divine magic, like
that singing thing.  Right.  So that's gray men.


