---
{title: Plot of Game as Recalled in College}
---
Begin in an inn in Souzal, guard caravan going south (meet some undead  
causing Aerin to refuse to sleep on the ground), reach Irebor  
(Beryl's uncle's estate, troops to Kyr's village), go to Kyr's  
Village (beryl becomes a ranger), reach village after journey up  
river, defeat the lead hobgoblin, leave via Elros' magic (after some  
brief discussion with Prophets of the Sky, and after Aerin's amazing  
demonstration of his "packing bags" ability :) ), rescue Gildor (the  
historian is meet, Aerin is foolish, Cha'Mutte is freed, a werewolf  
or something is killed), return towards Irebor (meet assassins or  
something on the road), decide to follow Rai to the Valley, reach  
Souzal after stopping at Corm and seeing Beryl's sister ride off on a  
unicorn (or something) and after meeting a cheating caravan, visit  
Gildor, travel around edge of ocean, Rai kidnapped, (go to  
Marsember?), find flying castle, rescue Alaris (w/ help of Skybolts),  
travel in castle to the edge of the mountains, travel over mountains  
and almost die, training in the valley (Rai in "otherworld", finds  
Dimitaur, Beryl finds Analadin), travel across village to Volkraad,  
save a village (Rai using lots of magic, Aerin flies to dwarves),  
something to do with wrestling in an inn (Aerin first exhibits  
shape-changing, and starting to act insanish at times), find Willow  
Wind and join the Rangers, Â L'Trel (?) explodes, find Swiftfoot,  
battle of Volkraad, travel downriver, Trollmoors(?), ship explodes.  
Kyr dies, Kyr reborn, Southward with stone boat. Aerin continues  
strange behavior, Amn and the Mockers (?), head south on the ocean,  
boat wrecked in a storm by Cha'Mutte, Aerin almost (does?) betray us,  
reach land, barely defeat the minions of Cha'Mutte, rest, head  
southward again (whale pulling raft?), In Chardon: Haldir, info  
learned, decide to go to "war council" in Marsember?, Aerin climbs  
shear wall, Rai becomes a friend to the halflings (how?), Through  
Rohan (something with an earth elemental before Rohan), burning farms  
and rumors of the loss of the kings horse in northern rohan,  
accidentally kill guards as we are leaving Rohan, the skeletal  
horses, the destruction of Irebor and the beginnings of the plague,  
war council and the possession of the 4 of us, Beryl returns to  
Willow Wind, Shayes does something?, we leave to find Rai's teacher.  
debacle of the dwarf mines, Beryl's depression, go over mountains(?),  
Urlich monastery destroyed, find temple, Rai has flashback and  
remembers teacher, true Magic... It gets flaky here. I know that  
there was an attack by Cha'Mutte, and we almost went to a nearby  
town, but the attack actually went to Marsember, and we arrived and  
helped defend. I know that Rai explored with the wizard eye to find  
the hidden dwarves... was that when we were in the dwarven tunnels?  
After Rai gets true magic, it gets fuzzy. Chronology becomes hard.  
Obviously, the Drankor bit, (twice, right), the before time bit,  
finding all the firstborn, Rai's whole death sequence, and subsequent  
return, what else?