---
{title: Politics and Geography Notes}
---


Working Document – History, Culture, Geography 

Version 1.0 

[please update version when editing] 

What I mean by “Culture” is the current state of human affairs, including government, religion, worldviews, international relations, way of life, and everything else necessary to describe what a particular group of people is like.  Any better words are welcome. 

Many names in this document need to be replaced.  Suggestions for new names are welcome and encouraged. 

I will probably organize this document by geographical groupings: the Western Coast, the Dunmar region, and the Inner Sea region.  In each geographical grouping I will cover the history from the Great War (end of the Third Age), the countries in the region and their culture and politics, as well as a basic overview of the geography of the region.  History from before the Great War (Third Age and earlier) will be in a separate section, which will probably include some information on Dragons.  Other suggestions for organization are welcome, but may not be used. 

Please pay particular attention to ‘**Questions:’ headings.  These are the areas that I think are in particular need of comment and work. 

The Western Coast: 

(includes the political/cultural entities of: Pan-Chardonian League, Empire of Ausberg, Isle of Varjatta, Shontu, New Volkrad, Khesan Peninsula, hobgoblin nations, and the hill people) 

(also includes the geographical/mysterious features of: the Elven forest, the Khesan forest, Pandar mountains, plus some other things) 

Basic Geography:  The Western coast of Taelgar, between the mountains and the ocean, is a land of rolling hills, river valleys, and coastal plains.  To the north, the land becomes rougher, colder, and more wooded, more wild.  There are two island systems off the Western coast: Shontu and Varjatta.  Shontu is at least a week’s sail from the coast, a strange archipelago that is closed to travel from the mainland.  Varjatta, to the north, is a large, cold, damp island, wooded and hilly.  South of the major river valleys around Chardon, the Khesan Peninsula sticks out into the Western ocean.  In this region, the land becomes mountainous, with deep islets and massive cliffs rising up out of the water.  There are many small mountainous islands here.  The peninsula itself is densely wooded in places, and hilly in others.  In the Gap of Dunmar, the land is rough and hilly, but definitely passable.  It is a wild country, but not necessarily an inhospitable one. 

The Pan-Chardonian League:  The Pan-Chardonian League (PCL) is a economic and military entity based on a series of in perpetuity treaties establishing mutual defense and certain internal economic concessions, as well as unified external economic policy.  However, law codes, public works, city management and other things are treated purely on a local level, and vary from city to city.  These treaties, while they do to a large extent unify the region and provide a sense of continuity through time, lead to a lot of political maneuvering as each region tries to get the best deal for itself.  Chardon is the largest political entity, but there are 10-15 other major and minor cities, city states, and territorial conglomerates that are also members.  The PCL is a constellation of cosmopolitan mercantile centers, mining towns, rich hinterlands, and smaller trading stops and way points.  While Chardon has a pseudo-democratic system of government, systems of local government can be quite varied across the League, although no local governments are absolutist, and none are strictly hereditary.  The League as an entity is governed by a variety of treaty councils, which convene semi-regularly, composed of representatives of all signatories.  The area of the Pan-Chardonian League is a rich agricultural land, and certain parts are rich in mineral wealth and timber (although these tend to be the areas that the Khesans tend to claim as their own).  Also, it is in a prime trading location, with wealth from the South, Shontu, and Varjatta flowing through the League to Sembara and the east.  The people in the Pan-Chardonian League are ethnically very similar, most of them being almost pure Imperial stock, and linguistically unified by Chardonian.     

The Ausberg Empire:  To the north of Chardon is the Ausberg Empire, an empire in only the loosest sense.  It is a land of many minor kingdoms, baronies, and duchies, of varying importance and power.  The Emperor only has as much power as he can force, cajole, beg, or browbeat out of the local rulers, along with a few somewhat minor but still significant hereditary powers that he can still usually enforce, and some important ceremonial roles.  This country is somewhat different ethnically from the Pan-Chardonian League to the South, with some Imperial stock, but with a great deal of [Western Northerner (never conquered by Drankor, but 

had some contact, much like Romans and Germans)] influence.  Their language is different as well, [Ausbergian for now but I'll come up with a better name once I come up with a good name for the Western Northerners.]  However, they are fairly similar in some cultural aspects, such as religion.  The Ausberg Empire is a place of different courts, and political intrigue based very much on power jockeying within and between courts, with an elaborate system of court patronage, and perhaps a very "aristocratic" outlook among the aristocrats (I'm thinking vaguely along the lines of "old Vor").  The life of the peasants would probably be hard.  Not as much urbanization as Chardon, and not as much mercantile wealth, but a great deal of wealth in raw materials, and perhaps a better trading connection to the Varjattans, based on similar ethnic ties. 

Dunmar and the Southern Coast: 

Basic Geography and Overview of Dunmar: Dunmar is a varied land of high, dry steppe and lush, fertile plains, although virtually all of the country is open land, with few trees and even fewer forests.  Dunmar is an ethnically uniform country, settled almost entirely by ethnic Dunmari, a people originally from far to the southeast, but driven north some time after the Plague Years.  They never fell under the influence of the Drankorian empire, and thus brought with them a foreign (and somewhat insular) culture and language that have survived only slightly modified by their new climate and contact with other peoples.   

The Dunmari have always lived under the shadow of the ruins of a great empire, and one that fell by magical means.  In many cases the old ruins have totally vanished, as it was far easier to reuse stone when needed than to quarry new stone.  Many of the old roads, however, have survived, although most have fallen into disrepair.  Around the ruined city of Drankor, however, the Dunmari do not venture.  Close to the city, a gray mist that never lifts sits on the land, and those that enter never return alive (with a very few number of exceptions, including of course the great Beryl, Aerin, Rai, and Kyr, saviors of the known world – [Mike, if you can think of any good legendary names or epithets for you guys, that would be useful]).  To the north of Drankor, stretching for a distance up the river basin and to both sides, lies a broken wasteland of rancid fens, deep gullies, and stunted twisted forests.  To the west, along the coast, the land gets gradually drier and drier until it fades into a barren, trackless desert of endless sands.  The desert sands blend into the dunes of the beach indistinguishably.  Here, nothing lives – all the life seems to have been sucked out of the land.  It is rumored that underneath the shifting sands, buried cities of the Drankorian Empire can be found, but no one has succeeded in finding one and returning to tell the tale. 

West of the barren desert, the land becomes rockier and more inhabitable, although still a desert.  Here, the terrain is hillier, with the occasional seasonal streambed or dry spring forming a temporary oasis.  To the north of this desert region rise a mountain range, the [??? Mountains].  Like the desert, they are dry on the side that faces the ocean, and rough and rocky.  Large cliffs of red limestone dot the landscape, rising into the mountain range.   

North of the mountains lies the highland steppe of Dunmar.  This is a dry land, but it gets sufficient rainfall for low intensity farming and pastoralism.  Most of the inhabitants of this region herd sheep, goats, and horses.  It is here that the famed horses of Dunmar, or at least the best of them, are bred and raised.  This side of the mountains is far lusher, although certainly not wet, and a few small rivers flow out of the high mountain valleys.  The mountains rise out of the land to the south, tall and forming a natural barrier to the Dunmari domain.   

The river flows down to the lower elevations to the northwest, where the land opens into a lush, grassy river valley.  This is the heartland of Dunmar, where vast fields of wheat and barley wave in the wind.  In the unsettled areas, wild grasses grow as tall as a man, with occasional stands of trees near the rivers and streams that flow across the land.  The lush heartland used to stretch all the way to the northern river valley, but now the settled land does not stretch beyond the western fork of the north river.   

West of the river basin, hills, rough but low, rise out of the land.  Unlike the mountains of the south, these are not imposing, snow covered peaks, but rather worn down hills that seem to bear the weight of ages.  These mountains are low and sloping covered with shorter grass at the bottom, craggy with a few clinging trees towards the top.  These hills gradually slope towards the west, turning into another river basin.  This river basin, on the western march of Dunmar, is not as populated or as open as the Dunmar heartland.  It is here that the few clumps of trees big enough to be considered small forests are.  The climate is somewhat drier, with less regular rainfall.   

On the borders of Dunmar to the north lie the foothills of the [Great Mountains].  This land is populated by several nomadic hobgoblin tribes, who raid freely when they can along the northern borders of Dunmar.  On the western border, the Dunmari have a sometimes uneasy relationship with the hillmen and people of the hills and mountains around the gap.  On the eastern border, the land was ravaged the hardest by the disasters during the Great War, and much of the land is still recovering two hundred years later.  Here, the populated land gradually fades into the slowly recovering, but still unpleasant land.