---
{title: The Cubes}
---


Each cube is extremely light, weighing no more than 10 grams.  They are no more than eight inches by eight inches square.  All the cubes except one have smooth, translucent surfaces, which shift color in what appear to be random patterns.  One cube is gray, one blue, one green, one red, one yellow, one purple, one white (with multicolored patterns), and one is brown.  To open these cubes requires a key of the same color as the cube to be placed on the cubes surface.  The key can be almost anything, but it must be flexible (no rocks or swords) and it must have at least a residue of magic about it.  When these cubes are opened, they dissipate into gas.  

The ninth cube is much heavier than the rest, weighing at least 10 pounds, with slightly smaller dimensions, about a hand’s breadth across.  It is matte black, and somewhat rough.  It is not a perfect cube; the dimensions seem just a bit off, like and Escher drawing that doesn’t quite make sense.  It will open at a touch, but it will transfer an insidious curse to the one who touches it.  They will become jinxed, causing all their friends to have -1 to die rolls, and their enemies to have +1.  To remove the curse requires closing the box, with its item in it, and returning it to the tomb. 

The Items: 

Inside the gray cube are two feathers, one crimson red, the other a slightly off white.  The crimson feather has a slight color gradient, getting darker at the tip.  It looks like the flight feather from a small hawk.  The off white feather looks like it was once pure white, but has gotten dirty.  There are thousands of gray and black specks covering the individual hairs of the feather.  It looks like a down feather from some giant bird.  It is at least seven inches long.   

Inside the blue cube is a sheet of black metal, about four feet square, with three runes etched in white on one side, and a long scratch running from just beneath the upper left corner to the lower right corner on the other side.  It is very cold to the touch, probably just below freezing.  It feels as if it had been bombarded by thousands of tiny meteors; there are many tiny pockmarks and ridges.  However, it looks completely smooth. The corners are extremely sharp, as are the edges.  To handle it safely requires gloves of some sort.  The sheet is very thin, probably no thicker than a sheet of paper.  However, it appears completely indestructible.     

Inside the green cube is a mobius strip made of oak.  It is about 20 centimeters across from outside to outside, and a quarter of that from inside to inside.  The ring itself is about 8 centimeters wide.  The oak has been very carefully polished, making it very smooth to the touch.  The natural color variations in the wood are readily apparent.  This looks like the oak ring described in Umbar’s journal. 

Inside the red cube is a coin made of apparently unremarkable brass.  On one side is a design of a snake eating its tail.  As time passes, the snake appears to swallow more of its tail, causing the circle to shrink.  When the snake has completely swallowed itself, a small egg appears, grows until it fills the seal, than hatches into a snake eating its tail.  The entire process takes exactly 24 hours.  On the other side is a staff, lengthwise, that breaks down the middle on the hour every hour.  Over the course of an hour, it grows back, starting from a centrally located shard.  

Inside the yellow cube is a metal circlet, unadorned, large enough to fit on the head of a large human or a small ogre.  It is matte black, and very smooth to the touch.  It feels warm; not hot enough to burn, but enough to notice it.  There are no noticeable seems or joints from forging.  It looks like the circlet described in Umbar’s journal.  

Inside the purple cube is a small marble statue, white with veins of gold, in the form of a large cat.  It looks fiercer than an average housecat; it is certainly wild, probably intended to be a jaguar.  It has silver claws protruding from all four feet, and it looks angry.  Its mouth is opened in a snarl, revealing very sharp silver fangs.  Its eyes are made of emerald, and give the illusion of flashing in anger.   

Inside the white cube is matte black metal ring, a bit too large to fit comfortably on a human hand.  Three tiny holes are present on the inside of the ring, only noticeable on a Vision-10 roll.  The ring itself is very similar to the circlet; perhaps even part of a matched set.  If put on, tiny metal claws will reach out from the spikes, making the ring impossible to remove.  It is indeed part of a matched set with the circlet.    

Inside the brown cube is a gold statue, about six feet tall, of a beautiful woman.  She is wearing a sleeveless long robe, falling straight to her ankles, with wavy wrinkles.  Her arms fall straight to her sides, her hands placed at her sides, palms against her body.  She has a rounded figure, attractive but not overstated.  Her hair is straight and long, reaching to the middle of her back.  It frames her face, which is bold and angular, yet somehow not harsh.  Her features are very well defined.  Her lips are turned in a slight smile, and her eyes are accented by high cheekbones.  Her face is very aristocratic.  

The black cube, which does not vanish, is full of a very fine gray powder, almost like ash, packed around a gray statuette of an owl.