---
{title: Magical Pale Blue Dye Vision}
---
You hold up a tiny vial of a pale blue dye, borrowed from [Cecilia Lister](<../../../people/tollenders/cecilia-lister.md>), to the [Mirror of the Past](<../treasure/mirror-of-the-past.md>), as the image shifts.

You see a dimly lit desk in a warehouse somewhere, weak sun streaming through a high window. Your perspective is looking up from some kind of silver scale apparatus, used for precisely weighing small weights. Two people are talking. One, a woman, looks like a Tollender merchant. The other, a man, wearing a lined fur cloak, is probably Urskan. They are speaking in Eastros; Wellby lip-reads a conversation. They are talking about how much the Urskan is asking for the dye, which seems a lot. He is saying that it is harder to go west these days, and the ice worms like the ... Wellby can't make out the word, it is probably a word in Urskan, and the ... another mystery word ... are asking for more and more. 

The image fades, and shifts. The scene is a forest. There are a few animal skin tents, and men and women in thick furs sitting around. One has a cloak that seems to blend into his skin almost, making it almost appear as if he has the head of a wolf. The perspective of the image is looking up, from the ground in the middle of the camp. The trees loom overhead, it seems to be perhaps early spring. The sun is shining but there is a lot of snow still clinging to the trees. A woman on horseback approaches, and speaks to the folk in camp in a language you do not understand. Some negotiation seems to happen, and the woman gets off her horse, and spreads out the contents of a pouch. It seems to be a large number of small white beads of some kind. Further negotiations, and then the woman leaves the beads, and takes the dye, and the scene fades.