---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Ring of Displacement Vision
---


The image of the ring fades, and you see a workshop in a tower, perhaps something like [Stormcaller Tower](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/stormcaller-tower.md>). This is clearly the workshop of a wizard of [Drankor](<../../../history/drankorian-era/drankor.md>). It is a big circular room, with a workbench, chair, and table, and with a circle of runes etched in gold around the edges of the room, providing a barrier to prevent the passage of extraplanar creatures. Sitting on the chair is an old man, with a balding head and a long white beard, looking at the ring sitting on the table. Entering the room is a warrior, clearly someone who is battle hardened, Drankorian as well. He is wearing a breastplate, carrying a sword, and with an insignia on his armor you don’t recognize but that seems to indicate a rank of some importance. The mage greats him as a friend, grasping his arm, and they talk for some time as the image in the mirror seems to accelerate. 

As the mage hands the warrior this ring, the scene shifts, and the ring falls through drifting sand to land in a bleak desert. Everywhere is just sand stretching as far as the eye can see - not even rocks, no birds, no life even. This is probably the depths of the [Garamjala Desert](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/garamjala-plateau/garamjala-desert.md>), deep into the desolation of [Cha'mutte](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/cha-mutte.md>) at the heart of the desert. The ring itself sits in a mausoleum, three-quarters buried by sand, but cracked open to the sky. The legs of a large statue, probably at least twelve feet high when it was constructed, stretch above the mausoleum. It seems to have been recently opened to the sky, as something shifted, and now sand is slowly filling the previously clear space within the structure. The ring is slowly buried more and more, until [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s hand reaches down to pick it up.

