---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Soul Lantern Vision
---

The mirror fades to black, and then clears, showing the inside of [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s hut. Kneeling on the ground are two [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), bruised and battered and stripped to rags. [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) is speaking, probably yelling, at them, and then [Samerki](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/samerki.md>) steps in, his giant spiked club over his shoulder, and swings and bashes their heads in. As the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) die, [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) chants briefly.

The scene flickers, and a new scene appears. The scene is the same -- [Agata's lair](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/agata-s-lair.md>) -- but this time, there is a human standing in front of [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>), hands tied. [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) is berating him, and then reaches to her belt, draws a knife, and slits his throat. Again, [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) chants and makes a symbol with her hands. 

The scene continues to flicker and flash, showing over and over again people being slaughtered in [Agata's lair](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/agata-s-lair.md>), and [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) claiming their souls. Most are [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), although you see a handful of humans. 

The scenes of death in [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s hut are interrupted only once, by a different scene: a halfling caravan, on the road, scouts ahead and wagons guarded by archers. You, as the lantern, see this scene from the back of a giant fly as [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) descends. This is [Garret Tealeaf](<../../../people/halflings/garret-tealeaf.md>)’s family, and as the scene shifts back to [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s hut you can see in the mirror an undead spirit growing out of the mirror and swooping down to chase the halflings, who scatter in terror. [Oswalt Tealeaf](<../../../people/halflings/oswalt-tealeaf.md>), who we met on the boat to [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>), and is [Garret Tealeaf](<../../../people/halflings/garret-tealeaf.md>)’s cousin, corroborates this story.