---
headerVersion: 2023.11.25
tags: [item/mundane, item/book, status/unknown]
name: On the Lost People of the Forests
typeOf: book
title: On the Lost People of the Forests
hide_toc: true
---
# The On the Lost People of the Forests
>[!info]+ Information  
> (book)  
> 

Written by the scholar [Gnaeus](<../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>), of [Chardon](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>), disgraced for using enchanment magic in his research. 

"In a book by Chardonian scholar, [Gnaeus](<../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>), written about a generation ago (maybe 20ish years), recently acquired from a book trader, [Kassi](<../../people/dunmari/kassi.md>) finds a mention of [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>). The book is a record/catalog of surviving people of the forests of [Chardon](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>). He describes a story of a group of people, northerners, who live upriver from [Chardon](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>) in the great forest, mysterious, few tales of them. But he found a way in, he used magic to convince one to speak of their secret religion, and learned it was a cult dedicated to the Demigod of Magic [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>), who speaks through the dreams of the high priest."

This book records the details of [Gnaeus](<../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>)' journey to the [Elderwood](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>): 

"25 years ago, as a young student, [Gnaeus](<../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>) was intrigued by the stories and mysteries of the great forest, known as variously [Ainumarya](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/ainumarya.md>) (from the original elvish name, meaning the home of the first gods, referring to the whole stretch) and more recently the surviving pieces are named the [Elderwood](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>), the [Crimson Forest](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/crimson-forest.md>) (after the rumors that the trees ran red with the blood of the elves), and the [Forest of Dreams](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/forest-of-dreams.md>), from south to north.

Few tales came to [Chardon](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>) of what happened in these woods after the [Great War](<../../events/1500s/great-war.md>); in 1555 a great host of hobgoblins, trolls, cursed beasts of shadow, and other monsters, led by a conclave of dragons, defeated the Chardonians in two battles, the [Battle of Kin-Aska](<../../events/1500s/battle-of-kin-aska.md>) on the banks of the [Chasa](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/rivers/chasa.md>) River, and the [Battle of Shadowfire](<../../events/1500s/battle-of-shadowfire.md>), only 250 miles northeast of [Chardon](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>). After a hasty retreat, and much sacrifice to slow the advance, this host was defeated in a great battle only 55 miles east of [Chardon](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>), the [Battle of Metium](<../../events/1500s/battle-of-metium.md>). Rumors that, at great cost to themselves, many elves at fought a year's long delaying battle to weaken this host before it reached [Chardon](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>) persist, although few know the truth.

Since then, the [Chardonian Empire](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardonian-empire.md>) has grown as it has rebuilt, but never beyond the confluence of the [Chasa](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/rivers/chasa.md>) and the [Kayan](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/rivers/kayan.md>), and many stories and rumors persist as to what happened to [Ainumarya](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/ainumarya.md>) and what has been rebuilt and resettled in the past 200 years.

[Gnaeus](<../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>) grew up in [Arendum](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chasa-river-valley/arendum.md>) and thus was draw to exploring the people of the [Crimson Forest](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/crimson-forest.md>) and the [Elderwood](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>). He knew, as a child, of the [Baz'aku](<../../groups/deno-qai/baz-aku.md>), a group of the Deno'qai who traded occasionally with [Arendum](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chasa-river-valley/arendum.md>) and lived on the eaves of the [Elderwood](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>).

As a student, then, he sought out these people, hired guides, and set off into the [Elderwood](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>) to learn what was there.

He spent 6 months with the [Baz'aku](<../../groups/deno-qai/baz-aku.md>) earning their trust, learning about their way of life on the eaves of the [Elderwood](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>). From them he learned of the shared myths of the Deno'qai, the People of the Gods in their tongue, who trace their ancestry to the first humans to leave Hkar, long before [The Downfall](<../../events/ancient/the-downfall.md>), the wars, and the founding of [Drankor](<../../history/drankorian-era/drankor.md>). They claim they once lived in vast forests that stretched from the mountains to the sea, from the [Yeraad](<../../gazetteer/west-coast/rivers/yeraad.md>) to the south, and as far north as the land of fire and ice, where the midnight sun lights the summer sky and the long night of winter lasts for weeks. Now few of their people survive, and even fewer who hold to the old ways, the worship of the tanshi, the spirits of the forest that bring their prayers to [Anida](<../../cosmology/gods/high-gods/anida.md>), the creator, the first and the last.

The [Baz'aku](<../../groups/deno-qai/baz-aku.md>) claim the land between the [Chasa](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/rivers/chasa.md>) and the [Kayan](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/rivers/kayan.md>), but spoke of other tribes, and stranger things, deeper in the woods.

[Gnaeus](<../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>) convinced a guide to take him south, across the [Kayan](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/rivers/kayan.md>), to the territory of [Bek'eni](<../../groups/deno-qai/bek-eni.md>). He spent two years living with them, learning about the tanshi and their way of life. They spoke of rumors of lost tribes to the east, in the depths of the [Elderwood](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>), the oldest part of the forest. They also spoke of ruins of elven cities hidden in the trees; of scars across the land cut by some evil where trees would no longer grow; of haunted battlefields where the restless spirits of Deno'qai, Chardonians, and elves dwelt.

But none would guide him, out of fear or caution or distrust of outsiders he was not sure. Finally, he resorted to magic, using a powerful chalyte enchantment to compel cooperation of a guide for 30 days. With the guide's help, and with some additional enchantments, he was able to find the [Te'kula](<../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>) in the heart of the [Elderwood](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>), near the source of the [Kayan](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/rivers/kayan.md>), and get them to allow him to stay for some time and learn their ways.

Unlike the other tribes of the Deno'qai he had met, the [Te'kula](<../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>) only worshipped one god: [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>). They made sacrifices to him, and he spoke to [Jordo](<../../people/deno-qai/jordo.md>), the Godcaller (the chief priest of the tribe) in dreams. The [Te'kula](<../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>) believe that [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>) is an old god of their tradition, called [Aasimti](<../../cosmology/gods/tanshi/aasimti.md>), a god that was associated with the [Elderwood](<../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>), with the ancient spirits of the great trees, who was thought to be lost when their ancestors were driven from their homelands during the [Blood Years](<../../events/1500s/blood-years.md>).

Four generations ago they returned to these woods, but it wasn't until 30 years ago that [Jordo](<../../people/deno-qai/jordo.md>), the Godcaller at the time, found [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>)'s spirit, trapped in the heart of a great tree that had fallen in the deepest part of the woods, and revived [Aasimti](<../../cosmology/gods/tanshi/aasimti.md>), now calling himself [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>).

[Gnaeus](<../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>) never learned or saw what [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>)'s spirit was, but from the way they spoke of him, it sounded like a physical thing, something the Godcaller possessed that allowed [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>), or [Aasimti](<../../cosmology/gods/tanshi/aasimti.md>), to speak in their dreams.

Since then, [Gnaeus](<../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>) learned, [Aasimti](<../../cosmology/gods/tanshi/aasimti.md>) has kept the [Te'kula](<../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>) hidden and safe. They would not speak of what they must be kept safe from, saying that speaking its name summoned it, and then even [Aasimti](<../../cosmology/gods/tanshi/aasimti.md>) could not keep them safe. But it dwelt in the east, and first came to their lands, in disguise, soon after [Aasimti](<../../cosmology/gods/tanshi/aasimti.md>) was found, speaking with a honeyed tongue and asking for [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>)'s spirit, then threatening utter destruction when [Jordo](<../../people/deno-qai/jordo.md>) refused. It was only a desperate prayer to [Rai](<../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>) to hide them that kept [Te'kula](<../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>) alive.

After 30 days, when his guide's enchantment ceased, the guide turned on him, and the [Te'kula](<../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>) followed. [Gnaeus](<../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>) fled downriver, barely escaping with his life."