---
{title: Scrying Late Dec 1748}
---

*In [Xurkhaz](<../../../gazetteer/istaros-watershed/xurkhaz/xurkhaz.md>), [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>)'s undead armies have been besieging the city of Uzgukar for 10 days now. But, you hear from [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) of the glorious first day, before [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) realized what was in store, when hundreds upon hundreds of zombies burned in the holy fire of the [Bahrazel](<../../../cosmology/gods/embodied-gods/bahrazel/bahrazel.md>). Unfortunately, [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) learned his lesson, and retreated, settling in for a long siege. A few days ago siege weapons appeared on the horizon, and while no undead army can enter the city, the bombardment over the past two days has done considerable damage to the walls and the Hall of Ancestors in the center of Uzgukar. This morning, [Murook](<../../../people/orcs/murook.md>) and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) led a sortie, aided by a deva messenger of the [Bahrazel](<../../../cosmology/gods/embodied-gods/bahrazel/bahrazel.md>), called forth by [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>), and burned a dozen catapults. It will take time for [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) to rebuild, and for now the city is quiet, although [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) does not seem inclined to leave while [Lubash](<../../../people/orcs/lubash.md>) remains hidden inside the palace.

*On the plains of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), the Battle of [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>) was fought on Dec 14th. [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) and her forces defeated the Chardonian battle mages, along with the remnant of [Karnas'](<../../../people/dunmari/nayan-karnas.md>) army, although she suffered heavy casualties. Now, [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) rides fast for [Songara](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/songara.md>) to fortify the border with [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>) against reprisals that are likely to come, while [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) rides south under banners of truce, to make her winter camp and protect the southern border of her new kingdom. Meanwhile, [Nayan Karnas](<../../../people/dunmari/nayan-karnas.md>) marches north, bringing with him [Johar](<../../../people/dunmari/johar.md>) as a hostage, and spreading news that [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) is the servant of an evil hag. A few days ago, on Dec 21st, [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) sent a message wishing you the blessings of [Sonkar](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/sonkar.md>) on the Day of Atonement, and now with the holy month beginning, there will be between Dunmari until the festival of the sun on Jan 22nd, when the sun begins its northward journey. 

*In [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>), [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>)'s tower remains a blank wall, impossible to perceive via scrying. But [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) himself does travel, and yesterday afternoon [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) spotted him, wandering the slums north of the [Chasa](<../../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/rivers/chasa.md>), apparently looking for something, or someone. You see him again, later, leading a pair of seemingly sickly and drunken men, their arms scarred with purple lines, towards his tower. The next few days, he seems to spend holed up in his tower. With some careful scrying, you manage to get a few glimpses of the exterior: he seems to be receiving visitors, including several people you don't recognize entering with servants carrying chests, and leaving alone and empty handed. But what might be happening in the tower, you cannot tell.* 