---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Vision of Govir's Research
---

Govir is sitting in the Archives, reading. He has written a letter, and has spread it out over four pages of text on his desk, clearly visible and easy to read. 

In the letter:
- Govir starts by apologizing for the lack of information. The archives have little to say about pre-Dunmari history. A few colleagues suggested Cavarrio's Chronicles of [Drankor](<../../../history/drankorian-era/drankorian-empire.md>), but he did not have time to find a copy. He hoped he might at least find more information about the [Cloak of Rainbows](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/cloak-of-rainbows.md>), but the records from before the Great War are badly disorganized and many require careful handling and copying before they can be read. He needs more time. 
- He does note one odd detail, in his reading. He notes that for many years after the Great War, the mystai of Bhishma maintained an outpost near Kharsan, in the blasted plains, and that many of their order traveled widely across the former lands of Dunmar, seeking lost souls and unmarked dead, and putting them to rest. And occasionally strange travelers would come to the monastery. In one of the earliest record books from the monastery, dating from no more than 20 years after the Great War, he finds mention of a strange man, a foreigner, traveling with two companions (a stoneborn man and a human woman, both silent). The man said his name was Jacques, and he was from the north, near Isingue. His home was destroyed in the War, and he and his companions had set out, having nothing left, to make their mark on the world as best they could in these dangerous times. They had fought their way past the Bitter Knife hobgoblins, and hoped to rest and recover for a few days in safety. Jacques claimed that they were seeking a ring, an ancient artifact of [Drankor](<../../../history/drankorian-era/drankorian-empire.md>) that allowed the wearer to cheat death. He said that, according to the Bitter Knife hobgoblins, Cha'mutte had taken this ring from a dead Drankorian Emperor, and given it to a lieutenant of his, who used it to rouse the dead of [Drankor](<../../../history/drankorian-era/drankorian-empire.md>) itself, and this is where the vast undead armies that overwhelmed Dunmar came from. When it had fallen when Cha'mutte was slain, none knew. But they were heading south, into the desert, to seek it and destroy it. Jacques showed the monks a vial of a bubbling black liquid, which he called Devouring Venom, claiming it was a poison distilled from an ancient black dragon, that could dissolve anything it touched, no matter how strong or magical. It could only be stored in a special vial of magical force. As far as Govir could tell, they never returned. 
- Finally, it the last page of the letter, Govir writes about Tokra. He says that he is scared, and he does not know what will happen, but the air is tense. The Lakan monks have remained in the monastery, and rumors  of war are everywhere. Kaleha, the temple administrator, has declared Tokra a city of sanctuary, and forbidden weapons to be carried inside the walls, claiming that she serves the gods first and foremost, and she will not have bloodshed in the city so close to Sonkar's Day. But the temple guard is small and cannot stop an army, should they wish to take the city.  