---
headerVersion: 2023.11.25
tags: [session-note]
campaign: Great Library
DR: 1748-08-22
DR_end: 1752-06-29
name: Chronicles of the Quest for Answers to Extraplanar Mysteries
title: Chronicles of the Quest for Answers to Extraplanar Mysteries
---
# Chronicles of the Quest for Answers to Extraplanar Mysteries

After months of waiting, clues to the mysterious disappearance of [Urkabi](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/urkabi.md>), [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s village, arrive with a new traveler, [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>). The [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) set off to the south to investigate, traveling to the city of [Castrella](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/castrella.md>), and then into the mountains on a hunt for Yeshara, the wolf-eyed queen of a shadowy realm called [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>). Fighting through shadowy enemies, the [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) find a portal to [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) called the [Cleaver-Stone](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/cleaver-stone.md>), as well as a series of stone plinths that form a soul compass, facilitating the theft of mortals from the [Material Plane](<../../../cosmology/material-plane.md>) to serve as dreamers for the [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>), the sleepless, every-vigilant army of [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>). With the aid of clues found in the old Drankorian fortress guarding this place, the [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) shut down the portal and the soul compass, but retreat to [Castrella](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/castrella.md>) to regroup before venturing into [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) itself. 

## Adventure 20: The Mysterious Sigil

### Session 62

A few weeks after returning from rescuing Dinia from the Havoc Host, [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) is still waiting for a response to his inquiry regarding the mysterious sigil associated with [his village's](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/urkabi.md>) disappearance and the [Umbral Covenant](<../../../groups/umbral-covenant.md>), sent to Archivist [Lyra](<../../../people/chardonians/lyra.md>) in [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>). The city guards bring [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>), human with blue skin and strange eyes, who claims to be carrying a message for [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>), to the [Tempest Towers](<../tempest-towers.md>). Blue turns over [the letter](<../handouts/letter-from-chardon-for-samso-on-the-umbral-covenant.md>), which she has opened and read, and mentions she is also interested in tracking down the [Umbral Covenant](<../../../groups/umbral-covenant.md>). After reading and discussing, the party uses [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s Transport via Plants to go back to his hometown -- still abandoned -- and make their way to the city of [Castrella](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/castrella.md>), where [Lyra](<../../../people/chardonians/lyra.md>) has suggested that folk tales and legends might provide more clues than official scholarly works. 

From [Urkabi](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/urkabi.md>), the [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) travel down the [Zurrua](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/zurrua.md>) river, on [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s boat summoned by the Staff of the Swamplands, finding a place to camp for the night as best they can. The next morning, with Samso's spells restored, they turn to wind and travel to [Castrella](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/castrella.md>), where the party splits up. [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>), emerging on the docks, wanders through taverns spreading money around. At [The Sober Seal](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-sober-seal.md>), he hears about [Isabetta](<../../../people/chardonians/isabetta.md>), a popular singer at the [The Drunken Dolphin](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-drunken-dolphin.md>), who might have interesting folk legends to tell. [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) hids in an alley, and accidentally mugs a drunk sailor. [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>), transformed into Marigold, an old woman, finds two kids, [Camile](<../../../people/chardonians/camile.md>) and [Arturo](<../../../people/chardonians/arturo.md>), who have fled trouble upriver, and helps find them jobs at [The Whale's Spout](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-whale-s-spout.md>), where the owner, Old Leo, has made a habit of taking in orphans. [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) finds a library, but ends up annoying Niccolo, the librarian, and stealing books in wild shape. 

Regrouping at [The Laughing Gull](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-laughing-gull.md>) for the evening, the party discusses what they learned. Adrik picked up numerous legends of Yeshara, also called the wolf queen or the wolf-eyed queen, who seemed to have lived in this area many, many years ago along with her people. The stories say that Yeshara was afraid of the dark, and used some kind of magic to create an eternally vigilant, sleepless army, called the [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>). According to folk tales, Yeshara and the [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>) were behind many of the wars in this region, including the [War of the Dark Rift](<../../../events/1500s/war-of-the-dark-rift.md>), the [War of the Severed Dreams](<../../../events/1100s/war-of-the-severed-dreams.md>), and [Apporian Shadow War](<../../../events/600s/apporian-shadow-war.md>) dating all the way back to the [Drankorian Era](<../../../history/history-of-the-drankorian-empire.md>). These folk tales speak of a Drankorian fortress that imprisoned Yeshara. The official histories, however, disagree, considering the [Umbral Covenant](<../../../groups/umbral-covenant.md>), the antagonists in the [War of the Dark Rift](<../../../events/1500s/war-of-the-dark-rift.md>), to be different from the enemies in previous wars. From [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>), the party learns that a sleeping sickness is killing people, still, in villages in the [Kedron](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/kedron.md>) valley, and some villages mysteriously vanish. 

The next morning, after talking some more with Old Leo, the party decides to travel upriver and investigate the rumored Drankorian fort. With wind walk, the journey is quick, and the party camps in a ravine about five miles from the entrance to the fort to rest before the assault. 

The entrance to the fort is guarded by a extensive wall. The party attacks the defenders, with [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) as a giant elephant providing a platform for [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) to leap onto the wall from. While the elephant is pinned down by minions, [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) pushes enemies off the top of the wall, and [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) lands a crucial paralysis spell on a shadow knight guarding the gates, as well as a fireball to clear the knight's soldiers. [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) strikes the knight with a critical hit smite, and [Alton](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/alton.md>), on a draconic spirit summoned by [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) rains arrows on the battlefield.

Although the hard fight, the party fights through the gates. [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) searches the ruins of the fort beyond with their arcane eye. While most of the standing buildings are ruined, and the party does not do a careful search, there are ancient Drankorian scrolls in the administrative records building. Investigation reveals that many of these are instructions for locking the portal and closes the soul compass. 

Traveling deeper into the ravine from the Drankorian fort, the finds a sealed door, decorated with an incantation to Yeshara and the sleepless vigil, blocking passage. Although not locked, the party is reluctant to touch the door; [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) sees a vision of Yeshara's face, with no eyelids, who speaks in their mind saying "I see you, intruder. [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) will consume you." Still, the party must continue and so they pass through the door. All who pass, however, are cursed and unable to sleep. 

On the other side, they see the remains of an ancient village, with wolf-headed stone plinths in two parallel lines leading to a longhouse. Two soldiers emerge from the longhouse, and speak of taking [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) to [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) to join the dreamers. The party quickly attacks, and defeats the soldiers without trouble. Afterword, attempting to retreat for a short rest, several of the [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>), including [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) and [Alton](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/alton.md>), cannot pass back through the sealed door. When [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) tries to drag [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) through, the psychic toll shreds their mind, consuming their knowledge of the guidance cantrip. During the rest, [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) sees a vision of a young girl emerging from the longhouse, and speaking to them as if they are someone named [Ilanar](<../../../people/other-humans/ilanar.md>), talking about how [Ilanar](<../../../people/other-humans/ilanar.md>) will not wake and it is scaring Yeshara, her mom.

After a rest, the party continues down the increasingly dark ravine, passing murals depicting Yeshara leading her people through and under a trilith stone, as part of some rite. Continuing down this passage, the party reaches a large room, with a trilith stone in the middle, several stone plinths with obsidian and bronze mechanisms on them surrounding it, and a greenish sigil glowing on the ceiling matching the symbol [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) found in his village years ago. The party engages in battle, as [the soldiers](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>) guarding the [Cleaver-Stone](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/cleaver-stone.md>) and the portal to [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) threaten to drag them through the portal to become dreamers and help the Yo'nari. The battle is challenging. [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) attempts to disintegrate and enemy, and fails; [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) is clearly targeted by many of the enemies and eventually falls unconcious and is dragged through the portal. [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) hides as an earth elemental, taunting the enemies. In the end [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) runs through the portal to rescue [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>), and [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s desperate, moonlight-enhanced attacks take down the commander, while [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>), attempting to hide with invisibility, produces a wild magic surge of bright light and is knocked unconscious. 

Still, at the end, the party emerges victorious by the skin of their teeth. With the enemies defeated, they use the instructions from the Drankorian administrative building to lock the portal and shut down the soul compass, presumably stopping, at least for now, further raids and disappearances. However, the [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) are in no shape to immediately run through the portal seeking [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s people. 

Instead, they limp back to [Castrella](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/castrella.md>), where they pay to have the sleepless curse removed by a priest of [Mos Numena](<../../../gods-and-religions/religions/mos-numena/mos-numena.md>), and regroup at [The Laughing Gull](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-laughing-gull.md>) before plotting their next move. 

### Session 63

The party rests and recovers in [Castrella](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/castrella.md>), restocking and gathering information. Mabist talks to [Thorek Deepdweller](<../../../people/dwarves/thorek-deepdweller.md>), an old dwarf hermit who tells of [Enderra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/enderra.md>) and the [War of the Dark Rift](<../../../events/1500s/war-of-the-dark-rift.md>), and the rumors of a hidden portal to [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) among the dwarven tunnels; [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) also searches for information but never leaves [The Sober Seal](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-sober-seal.md>). After a few weeks, the [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) gather at [The Sober Seal](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-sober-seal.md>) to discuss their plans and next steps. 

Deciding for a direct attack, the next morning the party uses _Plane Shift_ to reach [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>), arriving in a dense fog, apparently on a rocky hill top. After Mabist nearly falls off the cliff, the party explores as best they can, eventually finding a path, which they follow inward away from the edge. After passing through a trilith marked with wolf motifs, they magically emerge from the fog into clear skies, with several guards protecting the fort of Sarren Kir. 

After some brief negotiation, they convince the guards to led them to the village of Eshlem. Near the cliff, they attack in the fog. The guards fall seemingly dead relatively quickly, but are brought back to life by the sigil-tattoos on their chest, seemingly unable to die while the dreamers sleep, unless the tattoo is destroyed. After discovering the weakness of the [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>), the party returns, kills the last few minion guards, and enters the fort. 

Inside, they find some human prisoners, waiting to become dreamers, and Yeshara. Yeshara questions them, speaking in archaic Common, and seems unconcerned by the threat, claiming she cannot be hurt while the dreamers sleep. During the conversation, when asked about the dreamers, she doesn't answer, but subtly glances at the barrow nearby, prompting [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) and [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) to teleport there. Meanwhile, [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) attacks the guards as they move to surround him. 

While [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) and [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) explore the barrow, finding no dreamers, [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) fights the guards. Though he kills several of Yeshara's guards, he is brought down by her _Hypnotic Pattern_ spell. In the barrow, [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) and [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) find the words "Let no dawn enter. Let no roof break. Let the sleepers lie still and keep the Queen awake." These are written in many, many languages around the edge of the barrow. But with no other clues, they teleport away, fleeing. Meanwhile, [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s summoned dragon manages to wake [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>), as [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) and [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) flee into the fog. Yeshara does not give chase.

The party regroups on the road, and follows it to Eshlem, arriving as dusk is falling. The village is preparing a bonfire and a party to keep everyone awake through the night; many villagers appear terrified of the idea of falling asleep. [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) finds an old veteran, Joram of Eshlem, who speaks Goblin, though apparently from fighting in some ancient war from before even the [Drankorian Empire](<../../../history/historical-realms/drankorian-empire.md>). From Joram, the party learns about the Wolf Queen's Stillings: long barrows where sleepers are trapped, guarded by the [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>) who keep the people of [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) safe from the contamination of sleep. After some convincing lies, he tells them the stillings are nestled around the bottom of the hill upon which the palace, Sarren Kir, sits. 

The party leaves the village as the sound of wolves echo from the countryside: Yeshara's minions are after them. With [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s wild shape and summoned dragon, they take to the air and fly in search of barrows. Circling right around the base of the hilltop that holds Sarren Kir, they find three unguarded barrows. Exploring, these appear to be old barrows full of dead dwarf dreamers from the [War of the Dark Rift](<../../../events/1500s/war-of-the-dark-rift.md>). Many of the dead dwarves, though, rise as undead and attack. During the battle, [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) explores and discovers a portal leading back to the [Material Plane](<../../../cosmology/material-plane.md>), emerging somewhere in [Enderra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/enderra.md>) and guarded by a dwarvish iron golem. After the undead are defeated quickly, thanks in large part to a pair of _Fireballs_ cast by [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>), and with the wolves closing in, the party continues to search. 

Soon after, they find the lizardfolk dreamers, guarded by [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>). A fight breaks out. The [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) quickly realize that the _Daylight_ spell, cast via their [Dwarven Driftglobe](<../../../things/magic-items/dwarven-driftglobe.md>), wakes the dreamers. When the dreamers wake, any [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>) connected to them falls dead. The fight then becomes a race to wake dreamers as fast as possible, while keeping the [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>) occupied. 

As the last dreamers wake and the last of the [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>) falls, the wolves go silent, and all that is left is the wolf queen herself, Yeshara. The battle is fierce: the opening wave of terror from Yeshara kills [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s summoned dragon immediately. But [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>)'s axe and [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>)'s blade bite hard, and Adrik proves difficult to bring down even by the fiercest counterattacks, although Yeshara mostly shrugs off [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>)'s spells and [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s attacks as an earth elemental. Yeshara locks [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) in place with her lidless gaze, but [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) is able to push her into his range, for a devastating smite attack. [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) retreats, and in the end is the only one who escapes Yeshara's final barrow-summoning attack, allowing him to bring her down with a _Chromatic Orb_.

As Yeshara falls, [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>), [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>), and [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) fall into sleep, along with the lizardfolk dreamers and the inhabitants of [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>). [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>), transformed into an Earth Elemental, is unaffected by sleep, and realizes that months and years seem to be passing while his companions sleep. He wanders the realm for years, before eventually deciding to sleep with his companions.

After some time, [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>), [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>), [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>), [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>), and the lizardfolk dreamers awake in [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>); the native inhabitants, including Yeshara, still slumber, but the realm emerges from its stasis. The [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) escort the lizardfolk dreamers, and human would-be dreamers, away from [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) via the [Enderra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/enderra.md>) portal. 

While escorting the surviving lizardfolk, including much of [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s family, to [Urkabi](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/urkabi.md>), they learn of the chaos in [Voltara](<../../../gazetteer/northwest-coast/northern-provinces/voltara/voltara.md>), and the splitting of the [Northern Provinces](<../../../gazetteer/northwest-coast/northern-provinces/northern-provinces.md>) from the [Chardonian Empire](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardonian-empire.md>). [Brelith](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/brelith.md>) has been keeping [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) informed via _Sending_, and is now in hiding with Dinia. An attempt to _Transport Via Plants_ to [Tempest Towers](<../tempest-towers.md>) fails, suggesting the tree that once adorned the courtyard has been felled. 

The next morning, the party arrives in [Urkabi](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/urkabi.md>) with the lizardfolk rescued from [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>). [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) parts ways with his family and kin; [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>), [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>), [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>), and [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) _Transport Via Plants_ to an orchard outside [Voltara](<../../../gazetteer/northwest-coast/northern-provinces/voltara/voltara.md>) to face whatever is next, amidst reports that [Airion’s Floating Tower](<../../../gazetteer/northwest-coast/fiamatara-mountains/airions-floating-tower.md>) has returned to the [Erbalta Plains](<../../../gazetteer/northwest-coast/erbalta-plains/erbalta-plains.md>). 

### Events

- Sep 17, 1748 DR: [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) arrives in Voltara with a [letter](<../handouts/letter-from-chardon-for-samso-on-the-umbral-covenant.md>) for [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) about the [Umbral Covenant](<../../../groups/umbral-covenant.md>). The [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>), with [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>), transport via plants to [Urkabi](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/urkabi.md>), [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s village, and head downriver on Samso's magic raft. Camp along the [Zurrua](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/zurrua.md>). 
- Sep 18, 1748 DR: Samso turns the [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) to mist and the party wind walks to [Castrella](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/castrella.md>), arriving around noon. The group splits up to investigate and gather information, regrouping at [The Laughing Gull](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-laughing-gull.md>) that evening to discuss. 
- Sep 19, 1748 DR: The [Silver Tempests](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/silver-tempests.md>) speak to a group of orphans at [The Whale's Spout](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-whale-s-spout.md>), then wind walk up the [Kedron](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/kedron.md>) into the interior. Pass a [Drankorian](<../../../history/historical-realms/drankorian-empire.md>) mile stone pointing towards the [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) guard post. Reach a ravine with a fort, and camp for the evening.
- Sep 20, 1748 DR: Enter the fort, fighting off shadow guardians. Explore Drankorian ruins beyond and find an archive with information about locking the portal to [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>). Continue deeper into the ravine, passing a door with the seal of the wolf-eyed queen, which curses the party preventing sleep. Defeat two warriors of the [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>) in a longhouse beyond. Find the standing stones of the soul compass (forming a light in the shape of the sigil that [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) has seen) and the [Cleaver-Stone](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/cleaver-stone.md>), which appears to be a portal to somewhere, beyond. Fight Yeshara's lieutenant and more [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>) and nearly die. [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) is knocked unconscious and dragged through the portal; [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) runs through to rescue them, while [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>), in earth elemental form, slays the lieutenant. Use the instructions from the Drankorian archive to lock the portal, seemingly stopping the ongoing incursion. Leave to regroup before entering [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) to try to find [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>)'s village. 
- Sep 21, 1748 DR - Sep 25, 1748 DR: Limp back to [Castrella](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/castrella.md>), still under the curse of eternal waking from passing the sealed door. 
- Sep 26, 1748 DR - Oct 12, 1748 DR: Take rooms at [The Laughing Gull](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-laughing-gull.md>), and recover in [Castrella](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/castrella.md>). Find a priest to remove the curse of eternal waking for a generous donation. Research; meet [Thorek Deepdweller](<../../../people/dwarves/thorek-deepdweller.md>).  
- Oct 13, 1748 DR: Gather at [The Sober Seal](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/the-sober-seal.md>) in the evening, to discuss plans. 
- Oct 14, 1748 DR: Plane Shift to [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>), arriving on a foggy hill near the palace. Find palace. Lure guards from the gates, kill them. Meet Yeshara and discover some human prisoners; kill minions but run away from an unwinnable fight against Yeshara. Follow road to Eshlem, meet a few villagers. Talk to Joram of Eshlem, an old war veteran who speaks Goblin, and learn of the Stillings where sleep is kept contained. Return to Sarren Kir, with wolves hunting them. Find old barrows with dead dwarf dreamers from the [War of the Dark Rift](<../../../events/1500s/war-of-the-dark-rift.md>), and defeat undead; [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>) finds a portal to [Enderra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/enderra.md>). Find lizardfolk dreamers. Fight [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>) guards, bring _Daylight_ to barrows awakening sleepers and destroying [Shemra Azem](<../../../groups/shemra-azem.md>). Fight and defeat Yeshara. Fall into sleep as Yeshara falls. 
- Oct 15, 1748 DR - Jun 27, 1752 DR: [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>), [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>), and [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>) sleep, along with the lizardfolk dreamers and all the inhabitants of [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>), as Yeshara's dreamless slumber puts the realm into stasis. [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>), transformed to an Earth Elemental, is unaffected by sleep and wanders the realm for years, eventually deciding to sleep with his companions. 
- Jun 28, 1752 DR: [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>), [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>), and [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>), along with the lizardfolk dreamers, and [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>), awake in [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>); the native inhabitants still slumber. Leave [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>) via the [Enderra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/enderra.md>) portal. Learn of chaos in [Voltara](<../../../gazetteer/northwest-coast/northern-provinces/voltara/voltara.md>) and the splitting of the [Northern Provinces](<../../../gazetteer/northwest-coast/northern-provinces/northern-provinces.md>) from the [Chardonian Empire](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/chardonian-empire.md>). Attempt to _Transport Via Plants_ to [Tempest Towers](<../tempest-towers.md>), but fail. 
- Jun 29, 1752 DR: Arrive in [Urkabi](<../../../gazetteer/greater-chardon/chardonian-empire/apporia/urkabi.md>) with lizardfolk rescued from [Cairn Dor](<../../../gazetteer/extraplanar/shadowfolds/cairn-dor.md>). [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>) parts ways with his family and kin, who are eternally grateful. [Adrik](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/adrik.md>), [Samso](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/samso.md>), [Mabist](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/mabist.md>), and [Blue](<../../../people/pcs/silver-tempests/blue.md>) _Transport Via Plants_ to an orchard outside [Voltara](<../../../gazetteer/northwest-coast/northern-provinces/voltara/voltara.md>). 
