---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 39 (DuFr)
---


**(Sunday, Feb 6th, 2022; in Taelgar, July 3rd)

We begin as the party wakes in the pre-dawn light to search for signs of werewolves. Heading back to the lair of the Fraternity of the Empty Moon, the guards there report no disturbances. While all seems quiet, the party decides to exit through the secret tunnel, and perhaps investigate the ruins of the Drankorian fort near the weak point to [Pandemonium](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/primal-realms/pandemonium.md>) on their way north. 

Traveling a few hours from the tunnel exit, with no sign of fresh tracks, they stop to magically spy on the ruins with clairvoyance before approaching any closer than a half-mile vantage point. With [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s magical eye, the party sees the interior of the one occupied tower, partially ruined but with intact walls, for the most part. There are three people camped here: one is sleeping on a straw mat, one is keeping watch, and one, in ragged clothes and tied to a post with a long rope, is muttering inanities to himself. 

The party begins to sneak closer, and while [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) move silently and swiftly towards the tower ruins, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) are not so quiet. By the time the party is within 50 feet of the camp, the people are alerted. 

As the party rushes forward into combat, it becomes clear that these are werewolves. The party attempts to intimidate them into surrender, in part by warning them the rest of the werewolves are dead, and their plot is ended. This seems to have the desired effect on the two regular werewolves, one of whom runs (only to be chased down and knocked unconscious by [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)) and one of whom, restrained by [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s quicksand, cowers and tries to hide. However, the muttering one in the ragged clothes looks up and grabs a silver dagger, while muttering about how it is not time, it is too soon, the way is not prepared, and slits his own throat. As he falls to the ground, his body begins to grow mouths and the blood congeals into some gibbering beast, while a shadow whispering about madness and secrets emerges from the mists. 

The party quickly engages these new threats, which seem to fight in large part by confusion. Reaching into the minds of the party, it stuns them, turns them against each other, culminating in a nasty slash from [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) at [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), cutting extra sharp with the magic of [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)’s blade, acquired from the leader of the Fraternity of the Empty Moon. However, slowly the party chips away at these creatures, and before anyone dies the enemies are dispatched, the last blow dealt by [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s fists of planar power, although not before [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) finds herself lured into the mists by the sound of irresistible voices. However, she is rescued by quick use of mage hand from [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) to tie a rope around her waist, and a solid pull from [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) together, the combination of them barely strong enough to jolt [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) out of her daze. 

As the fog of combat clears, the party searches the camp, finding another seven ritual spears, and retreats a bit, out of sight of the fogs of the [Pandemonium](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/primal-realms/pandemonium.md>) rift, to interrogate the prisoners. 

The [woman](<../../../people/dunmari/dunmari-werewolf-woman.md>) was apparently a Dunmari, a refugee living in the camps outside [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), an unwilling convert cursed with lycanthropy a few months ago, and brought into the cult by convincing her their was no cure, she had no choice. Promised a cure, she is willing to speak with the party. She says there was one other recent convert, a man named [Umber](<../../../people/dunmari/umber.md>), also a Dunmari, but the rest were from the east. She also seems to feel like when the one who cursed her is near, she cannot think as clearly and the curse is stronger in her mind. She tells them a bit of the plan, that the mad one  who killed himself was meant to be the sacrifice that would summon [Jinnik](<../../../cosmology/gods/high-gods/jinnik.md>)’s avatar, give the curse of lycanthropy new strength and power. 

##### The Werewolves’ Tale

The [man](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/werewolf-prisoner.md>) is less cooperative. He was one of the members of the cult that traveled from the east, and is not willing to speak, until [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s magic turns his mind and he opens up. He was apparently part of a pack of werewolves living in the desert near [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), until maybe a decade ago a charismatic leader showed up – the leader of the Fraternity of the Empty Moon, now dead – and began preaching of a return of [Jinnik](<../../../cosmology/gods/high-gods/jinnik.md>)’s curse, of power and freedom. His pack was quickly swayed, and joined the mission, which started with a way to get into [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), to avoid [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>)’s maze. The leader knew of an [old witch](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) who could help, but he needed powerful magic to trade to her. Until a few years later, his brother came home with a [silver scepter](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/scepter-of-command.md>) that seemed to be quite powerful, and the leader knew this was what he needed. So the plan was set in motion. The leader left with the scepter and came back a few months later, telling them events were in motion. This was maybe two years ago. Then, a few months back he came and told us that all was ready. There was one thing he had to do first, create a distraction, but soon it would be time. We moved towards the border, and found great hordes of refugees fleeing west. It was easy to join them, and disappear in the throngs of strangers in [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), where we set up a base and waited for the proper alignment of the planes. But there was a problem. [Jinnik](<../../../cosmology/gods/high-gods/jinnik.md>)’s curse was too strong, we couldn’t penetrate the madness of the mists, but we needed to get in for the greatest effect of the ritual. We were stumped by this, until we heard a Dunmari man talking about a map, a clue and a secret. So we hunted him down. But the map was no good, or there was a secret we didn’t understand, but the hope was the Dunmari scholar we turned would solve it. That was a week ago. 

As the party finishes interrogating the captives, the story of the past few months becomes clear. The leader of the Fraternity of the Empty Moon found the [scepter](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/scepter-of-command.md>), somewhere near or in [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), and traded it to [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) in exchange for her help getting them unnoticed into [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>). This required two things: a way to create a refugee crises, and a way past [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>)’s maze. [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) gave the werewolf cult leader a scroll to summon a demon in order to provoke a border crises, and implemented her plan to lure [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>) out of [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) with [Heart of Shakun](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/heart-of-shakun.md>) in order to lower [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>)’s defenses and allow the werewolves, and the gnolls created by the demon, into [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>). While the prisoner did not know all the details, you recall that [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) had a deal with the [Centaurs](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/centaurs/centaurs.md>) to not travel or interfere in the north, and probably wanted to meet the letter, if not the spirit, of that agreement by putting as much distance between her and the gnolls as possible (although she also obviously twisted some for her own purposes, such as guarding the entrance to [Shakun’s Wellspring](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/shakuns-wellspring.md>)).

With the sun climbing towards noon, the party escorted the prisoners back to [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>). We end as the party splits up, [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) staying in [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>) in charge of the prisoners, while [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) get their gear and mounts and head north in search of [Saka](<../../../people/dunmari/saka.md>). 