---
tags: [session-note]
name: Dunmari Frontier - Wellby Solo Session 3
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 66
realWorldDate: 2022-11-19
DR: 1748-10-14
DR_end: 1748-11-13
players: [Wellby, Alimash, Shoal]
title: Dunmari Frontier - Wellby Solo Session 3
---

## Timeline

- Oct 14, 1748 DR: Rescue prisoners from aboleth lair, leave for [Wahacha](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/wahacha.md>)
- Oct 15, 1748 DR: Arrive back in [Wahacha](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/wahacha.md>). Help freed victims get organized to travel to the sea [elves](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/elves/elves.md>) until a cure can be found. Say farewell to [Artem](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/artem-novolozek.md>) who departs for [Medju](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/medju.md>). 
- Oct 16, 1748 DR - Oct 22, 1748 DR: Organize a ship and supplies from [Wahacha](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/wahacha.md>), to sail north. 
- Oct 23, 1748 DR: Say farewell to [Rufus](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/rufus.md>); depart with [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) and [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>) for the tower of [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) the Wanderer. 
- Oct 24, 1748 DR - Nov 12, 1748 DR: Sail north, passing many strange islands along the way. 
- Nov 13, 1748 DR: Arrive [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>)'s tower. Fight mirror shards, meet [Gyles](<../../../people/other-humans/gyles.md>) the steward, discover that [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) is trapped in the [Mirror Realm](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/mirror-realm.md>). Free [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>). Say goodbye to [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>), who heads south again to court his lady love, and [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>), who remains in [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>)’s service for the time being. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) is plane shifted to Lastlight Falls, the fey crossing near [Stormcaller Tower](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/stormcaller-tower.md>) in the north of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), by [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>)’s magic.
## Narrative

We begin in the aboleth’s cave as [Rufus](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/rufus.md>), [Artem](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/artem-novolozek.md>), [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>), [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>), and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) deal with the aftermath of that creature’s death, and the dazed confusion of the prisoners and slaves of the aboleth coming out of their charmed state. As others tend to the prisoners, [Artem](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/artem-novolozek.md>) immediately moves to recover the remorhaz heart, explaining that this rare treasure is his price for freedom. [Artem](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/artem-novolozek.md>) is fleeing from Ursk, a magocracy run by eight families of wizards, known as the rodnye; the exact reasons for his flight are unclear, but the party gathers he was unwilling to pay a price asked of him. The remorhaz heart is to be traded with a partron in [Medju](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/medju.md>) who has the means to ensure his safe escape from the scrying eyes of the rodnye of Ursk. As [Artem](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/artem-novolozek.md>) gathers his treasure, he also examines the massive amber prison for some creature that none wish to see freed, and suggests that perhaps this is best left alone and undisturbed.

Meanwhile, the discussion turns to the prisoners. The two kenku – [Nahto](<../../../people/kenku/nahto.md>) and [Skoda](<../../../people/kenku/skoda.md>) – tell [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) that the person he seeks is a wizard known as [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) the Wanderer, originally from the western edge of [Green Sea](<../../../gazetteer/green-sea.md>), and quite interested in the nature of the multiverse. He would surely know how to send [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) to the [Feywild](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/feywild.md>). Unfortunately, his apprentice, Ressena, the formerly enslaved mage, tells the party that [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) is missing. He was experimenting with trying to reach the hypothesized [Mirror Realm](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/mirror-realm.md>), when [Resenna](<../../../people/other-humans/resenna.md>) heard a crash and a hand reached out of the reflective side of a silver water pitcher to try to grab her. She dodged and ran to investigate, but her master was nowhere to be seen, until she saw his reflection darting from shard to shard in the reflections of broken glass. When her reflection appeared and tried to grab her again, she fled, but was caught by the aboleth’s raiders on her way south to [Medju](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/medju.md>). 

As the party heads above water to return to [Wahacha](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/wahacha.md>) and prepare for the journey north to [Arryn’s Tower](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/arryns-tower.md>), they are confronted with the realization that the prisoners of the aboleth have been sickened with some disease that causes their skin to burn when exposed to air for more than a handful of minutes. The sea elves volunteer to shelter the freed captives (who retain the ability to breath underwater while the disease infects them) until a cure can be found, while the party gathers supplies for the journey north, and [Nahto](<../../../people/kenku/nahto.md>) repairs [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)’s kenku armor to allow him to activate the wings that were previously broken. 

Finally, [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), and [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>) head north in a small sailing boat, navigating their way north towards [Arryn’s Tower](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/arryns-tower.md>). past the oddities and sights of the Eastern Isles: a small island with an incredibly dense pine forest, no signs of cities or towns, but small lights moving in the darkness through the trees as the adventurers ride at anchor for the night off the coast; a sheltered harbor in what appears to be a coral atoll, except all the coral has turned to solid stone; a flat island, covered in a vast expanse of salt marsh and shallow dunes just barely above the ocean, moving fast in the current seemingly unmoored from whatever keeps these islands roughly in place, with lizardfolk on the shore swimming and playing in the water. 

The party arrives at the small island on which [Arryn’s Tower](<../../../gazetteer/eastern-green-sea/arryns-tower.md>) stands, mooring on the long dock that, while obviously in use recently, is currently deserted. Following the path, the party approaches the tower. While [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) begins to inspect the door, shards of glass spread around the outside entrance – seemingly from several broken mirrors – begin to swirl into swarms and animate, attacking the party. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) makes a few attempts at unlocking the door, but in the chaos of battle finds it difficult, and instead turns to fight. The party manages to reduce the glass swarms to dust in short order, and with time to study the door quickly yields to [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)’s lockpicking skill. 

The first floor of the tower is a entryway and an elaborate audience chamber, where all reflective surfaces seem to have been removed or dirtied with soot and lard to prevent reflections. Some experimentation with pools of water reveals that reflections animate, and move separately from the person they are reflecting, to the point that [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)’s mirror hand begins to reach out of a puddle of water and try to grab [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>). After some further experimenting with reflections, the party heads up the stairs to continue exploring. 

The second floor – kitchens and servant’s quarters – is not deserted. The party finds [Gyles](<../../../people/other-humans/gyles.md>), [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>)’s steward, here. He is not doing well, struggling to deal with the chaos of what is happening in the tower. It takes some convincing, but the party eventually gets him to believe they are real. He tells them that after [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) vanished, [Resenna](<../../../people/other-humans/resenna.md>) told him to run, but he refused to abandon [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) or the place he had called home for more than 15 years. But then a mirror reflection of himself tried to emerge from a mirror and take him over. He smashed the mirrors, but was too scared to leave the tower, afraid of the reflections in the ocean. He suspects [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) has been taken into the [Mirror Realm](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/mirror-realm.md>). 

As the conversation progresses and it becomes clear the party may need to distinguish between the mirror [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) and the real [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>), [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>) asks [Gyles](<../../../people/other-humans/gyles.md>) for something about [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) that only [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) would know, and is told about when they were coming east, on a halfling ship, [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) sang the Lost Lads of [Tollen](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/tollen/tollen.md>), the only time he’d ever heard him sing. 

The party flies to the top of the tower, avoiding whatever dangers lie on the 3rd floor. It takes some time and convincing a raccoon to investigate, but they find the location of [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>)’s notes with clues to the [Mirror Realm](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/mirror-realm.md>). The raccoon also ends up in the [Mirror Realm](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/mirror-realm.md>) itself, and sees two wizards wandering around, confirming that both the (presumably) real [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) and the duplicate [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) are still alive. From [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>)’s notes and observation of the raccoon, the party learns that in order for the real [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) to be returned to this world, the duplicate [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) must be destroyed. 

After some discussion of how to proceed, the party decides that [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) will use his smoke arrow to obscure the room with the mirrors at the top of the tower, and everyone will rush around covering the mirrors with drapes and sheets so that they can control the creation of duplicates. Then [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) will enter the [Mirror Realm](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/mirror-realm.md>) to try to figure out which is the real [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) and kill the duplicate, while [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) and [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>) (presumably) deal with the [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) duplicate that appears on this end. 

The plan immediately faces complications, however, when [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) speaks to an [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) and realizes the wizard does not remember the real world and that magic does not work in the [Mirror Realm](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/mirror-realm.md>), while at the same time mirror-[Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) charges [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) in a rage. As [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) and [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>) battle mirror-[Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>), real [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) pushes the [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) version away, after humming the Lost Lads of [Tollen](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/tollen/tollen.md>) to him with no effect, and runs down two flights of stairs to talk to the other [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>), where the conversation repeats. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) and [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>) attempt to restrain mirror-[Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) to give real-[Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) time, while real-[Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) hums again to the other [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>), who recognizes the tune. [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) immediately stabs the first [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>), who shatters into thousands of tiny silver shards as the real [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) fades and begins to reappear in the real world. At that moment, [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>) strikes with all his power at the now-restrained mirror-[Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>), who likewise shatters into thousands of pieces as the real [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) emerges. 

Quickly, restored to his memories and powers, [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) closes the portal to the [Mirror Realm](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/mirror-realm.md>), severing the connection, and turns to thank [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>), and [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>) profusely. After giving gifts to [Alimash](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/alimash.md>) (a ring of mind shielding) and [Shoal](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/shoal.md>) (a deck of beautiful illusions), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) asks about the [Feywild](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/feywild.md>). [Arryn](<../../../people/other-humans/arryn.md>) gifts him a necklace enchanted with moonlight as a gift to secure an honorable Fey guide, and the plane-shifts him to Lastlight Falls, the portal in northern [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) where [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) will meet his friends. 











