---
tags: [session-note]
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 22
realWorldDate: 2021-04-08
DR: 1748-05-11
DR_end: 1748-05-11
players: [Kenzo, Wellby, Delwath, Seeker]
tagline: in which the party fights manticores and orcs who lurk in the Monastery of Bhishma
descTitle: Monastery Battles
name: Dunmari Frontier - Session 22
title: Dunmari Frontier - Session 22
---
# Dunmari Frontier - Session 22

>[!info] Monastery Battles: in which the party fights manticores and orcs who lurk in the Monastery of Bhishma
> *Featuring: [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)*
> *In Taelgar: May 11, 1748 DR*
> *On Earth: Thursday Apr 08, 2021*
> *[Monastery of Bhishma](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/monastery-of-bhishma.md>)*

The [Dunmar Fellowship](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/dunmar-fellowship.md>) defeats manticores and orcs at the [Monastery of Bhishma](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/monastery-of-bhishma.md>) and uncovers the secrets of the [Order of the Awakened Soul](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>).
## Session Info

***Character advancement: Kenzo dies for the first time, journeying to the [Land of the Dead](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/land-of-the-dead.md>), where he encounters Bhishma and becomes an initiate into the [Order of the Awakened Soul](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>). 
### Summary
- The [Dunmar Fellowship](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/dunmar-fellowship.md>) rests then scouts the [Monastery of Bhishma](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/monastery-of-bhishma.md>), discussing past events and connections to the [Order of the Awakened Soul](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>).
- They decide to explore during the day; [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), as a hawk, hears manticores and orcs nearby.
- A battle ensues where the party kills a family of manticores and then an orc patrol, capturing one for interrogation.
- The captured orc reveals the presence of ghosts, Grash's patrolling operations, and the strength of [Grash's armies](<../../../groups/orc-hordes/grash-s-horde.md>).
- [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) undergo a [ritual of initiation](<../dreams-and-visions/order-of-the-awakened-soul-initiation.md>) for the [Order of the Awakened Soul](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>), with Kenzo becoming an initiate.

### Timeline
- May 11, 1748 DR, midday: [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) returns to camp. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) tells party about Rai, his jade fragment, and their connection to the [Order of the Awakened Soul](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>) and [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/bhishma.md>).
- May 11, 1748 DR, early afternoon: Investigate [monastery](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/monastery-of-bhishma.md>). Fight and kill a manticore family. Fight an orc patrol, killing most and capturing one. Interrogate [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), learning that the only other things in the monastery are ghosts; that [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) keeps a patrol here to report anything suspicious; and that Grash's armies are strong and will defeat [Uzgash's bastards](<../../../groups/orc-hordes/people-of-the-rainbow.md>) soon. 
- May 11, 1748 DR, mid-afternoon: Enter common hall of the monastery, find initiation chamber. Kenzo and Seeker proceed down hallway illuminating the history of [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/bhishma.md>) and her miracles. Kenzo becomes initiate of the Bhishma Mystai, known as the [Order of the Awakened Soul](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>), dying and being revived during the process. 


## Narrative
We begin around noon at camp, about 5 miles south of the [Monastery of Bhishma](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/monastery-of-bhishma.md>), as [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) returns from scouting as a desert hawk. The party is just finishing their usual midday rest, in the shade of the canyon walls along the dry river, and deciding what to do next. First, though, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) tells them about [Rai](<../../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>), the [Heroes of the Great War](<../../../people/pcs/great-war/heroes-of-the-great-war.md>), and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s possible connection, via the [Jade Piece of Rai's Hand](<../treasure/notable-items/jade-piece-of-rai-s-hand.md>) he carries, to [Rai](<../../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>), and the fact that the [Order of the Awakened Soul](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>), who [Rai](<../../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>) told [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) to seek, is also the [Mysteries of Bhishma](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>). The discussion turns to more recent history, and pondering again what could have happened thirty years ago that nearly destroyed the [Order of the Awakened Soul](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>) and left their monastery abandoned. 

After some discussion of the past, the party turns to [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)’s scouting report and map. They decide that during the heat of the day, while everything is quiet, may be a better time to explore than dusk, and so head for the monastery. Making a small camp and leaving horses and gear at the foot of the cliffs, the party heads around the bend in the river to approach the monastery from the west. 

As the party scouts the monastery, passing through the gardens and slopes leading down the river, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), scouting ahead, hears the sounds of evil childlike laughter and what might be a sleeping lion’s soft growling coming from a large one story building ahead. Deciding to scout invisibly, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) goes through the kitchens, and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) look through the crumbling wall. In the large common room and dining area of the monastery, two large creatures -- with the body of lions, leathery wings, and humanoid faces -- are sleeping, while smaller young are taunting each other. 

After some debate, the party decides they cannot let the manticores live, as they will be a threat to [Baxter](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/companions/baxter.md>) and the horses if they wake up and go hunting. They concoct a plan to drop a driftglobe while invisible to lure the little ones away, then surprise the parents. Although they start with some bad luck, the combination of [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s metal heat heating and searing one of the manticores, and a well placed, if very loud, shatter spell makes relatively quick work of the beasts. While they don’t have any treasure to speak of, the bones and refuse in their lair does contain some relatively fresh gnoll skeletons. 

The very loud sounds of the battle draw the attention of an [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) patrol, who had been resting in the nearby bathhouse, out of the sun. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) enlarges [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), and between the giant monk and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s usual skill with the sword, the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) are dispatched without much danger. As the last surviving [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) turns to flee, a well-placed suggestion from [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) compels him to surrender and talk to save his life. 

From the [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) captive, the party learns that the only other creatures in this complex that he is aware of are the ghosts, who keep the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) from entering the tower or the [Hall of Stories](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/hall-of-stories.md>). The [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) feed the manticores occasionally, but otherwise all is pretty quiet. They come for a few days to keep watch and report anything suspicious to [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>); this war band is due to be relieved tomorrow afternoon. According to this [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) anyway, [Grash's armies](<../../../groups/orc-hordes/grash-s-horde.md>) are strong and will defeat [Uzgash’s bastards](<../../../groups/orc-hordes/people-of-the-rainbow.md>), who are somewhere to the south, soon. As the spell ends and the [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) turns angry and hostile, the party leaves him locked in the bathhouse, with the doors barred from the outside.

Returning to the dining hall that was the manticore’s lair, the party examines the large door in the far wall, painted with images of [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/bhishma.md>) and the words, “Let those who would enter my presence and accept my grace kneel before me and offer their prayers.” As [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) kneels and prays, the door swings open, revealing an antechamber of sorts, undisturbed by [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) or beasts but worn down by time. A wardrobe holds rotting robes, and a chest contains holy water. The room reminds [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) of the preparation for initiation into the [Lakan Mystai](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/lakan-mystai.md>), with the robes and holy water especially. 

Proceeding through another small room into a long corridor, the lights go out and all is dark for a moment, until, down the hallway, a scene on the wall is illuminated, a large group of people, carrying all their worldly possessions, pulling carts and livestock, fleeing from some tangled mass of darkness. You can feel the wind in your hair, and remember the feeling, the ache of leaving home and having to flee to new lands. Sensing a choice as to whether to continue down this path into the mysteries of [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/bhishma.md>), or turn back, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) choose to continue and experience the [ritual of initiation to Bhishma's myseries](<../dreams-and-visions/order-of-the-awakened-soul-initiation.md>), while [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) turn back to the entry room to wait.
