---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 55 56 (DuFr)
---


## Timeline
**Sept 30**: Arrive in the jungles far to the east; meet [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>); travels to lizardfolk village of Bedez
**Oct 1 - Oct 25**: Spend time with [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) in the village, learning the language and about the spirit realms
**Oct 26**: [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) guides Kenku on a [spirit journey](<../dreams-and-visions/kenzo-spirit-journey-in-bedez.md>) through the [Dreamworld](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/proximate-realms/dreamworld.md>); [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) learns of different kinds of ki, and seeks the soul of Apollyon, among other journeys
**Nov 2**: Heroes of Orekatu gather in Bedez to choose who will travel to the Footprint of the Gods and seek answers to the chaotic energy and imbalance there
**Nov 3**: Ceremony where the ancients bless the champions of the people and the choose those to go; [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) meets [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) and [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>)
**Nov 4**: [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>), [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>), and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) leave Bedez, heading for the Footprint of the Gods
**Nov 5**: Travel through the jungle
**Nov 6**: Arrive footprint of gods; encounter a lava river and the fire spirit [Somi-nai](<../../../people/fey/somi-nai.md>) being chased by corrupted dinosaurs of elemental fire; destroy flame dinosaurs; speak with [Somi-nai](<../../../people/fey/somi-nai.md>). Cross the lava river, and proceed to the flooded jungle. Commune with an ancient tree; find the dryad [Eleuha](<../../../people/fey/eleuha.md>); avoid a maelstrom whirlpool dragging everything it touches into an endless watery void; confront [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) and heal their wounds, freeing them of the bindings that weakened and sickened them; meet [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>), the jaguar spirit guardian of the jungle.
**Nov 7-12**: Spend time in the jungle with [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) and [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>)
**Nov 13**: [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) decides to remain and care for the babies, whatever they will become; [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) plane-shifted to the [Feywild](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/feywild.md>), to Lastlight Falls, by the magic of [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>)

## Session Notes

### Prequel

We begin as [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) lands in a lush tropical jungle, on the dimly lit forest floor, among the think trunks and roots of the massive trees that make the canopy far above, surrounded by the vibrant sounds of life. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s contemplation is quickly broken by a scream, a cry of distress from nearby. Rushing to investigate, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) finds a lizardfolk man being attacked by two dinosaurs with corrupted auras. Quickly driving them off, the man introduces himself as [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>), and tells [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) a bit of where his is: very far away, far to the east and south, in the lizardfolk Kingdom of Orekatu. 

As [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) return to the village of Bedez, [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) tells [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) a little bit about what has been happening: there is something that has disturbed the balance of the land here, something that has upset the equilibrium between elemental and spiritual forces and allowed elemental corruption to seep into the land. [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>), who calls himself too old to be an impulsive youngster, but too young to be a trusted elder, has been sounding the alarm without much success, and hopes that [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s testimony about the dinosaur attack will help sway the village elders. During the walk, [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) tells [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) about some of the [plants that grow in the jungle](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md#304854>), and the ki – called arima in the lizardfolk tongue – of the jungle, and they walk past a sacred spot where hutsu grows, imbued with the spirits of the lizardfolk ancestors. Communing with the jungle, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) gifts his ki to the hutsu spirits, and begins to get a sense of what is wrong: something in the land is drawing too much spiritual energy to itself, leaving the jungle dry and empty of ki. And [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) also tells [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) about the land - about how, in the ancient days when the gods walked the earth, the planes were all one, and when the multiverse was separated by Arhat and [Malik](<../../../cosmology/gods/high-gods/malik.md>), strands of extraplanar energy still remained in Taelgar, connected the material plane to magic and spiritual power. One place, called the Azta Lekua, or the Footprint of the Gods, is particularly rich in these connections. 

Arriving in the village of Bedez, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) settles in with [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>), learning the language and the lizardfolk teaches of the spiritual realm from him. [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) is particularly invested, as the ancestors gave him a vision, that “the raindrop that will start the river flowing will be a stranger who carries the soul of an ancient forest with him.” During this time, [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) introduces [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) to the matriarch of the village, [Arrosa](<../../../people/lizardfolk/arrosa.md>), who is finally convinced by [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s report of the corruption in the dinosaur’s auras to listen to [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) and request help to investigate what is happening. After several weeks of teaching, [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) proclaims [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) is ready, and takes him to a place in the jungle, a cave filled with dark water, that [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>) says is close to the moment of creation, a place where [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) can see the spirit realms.

Here, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) experiences a [spirit journey](<../dreams-and-visions/kenzo-spirit-journey-in-bedez.md>). 

As you emerge from your vision, the echoes of the symphony of ki remain with you, the impression of the endless power and combinations of the spiritual power of the music of this realm, and the knowledge it would take many lifetimes to understand all of the possibilities of this symphony. Yet through this experience you have begun to see and hear and as you emerge, your senses are sharpened to the spiritual echoes in Taelgar. 

### Session 1

We begin in the lizardfolk village of Bedez, where, finally, a group of lizardfolk heroes have gathered before a council of elders. From these, based on the blessings of the ancestors, a few will be chosen to travel with [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) to the Footprint of the Gods and confront whatever is throwing the jungle out of balance. As the council ends, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) meets [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>), the first chosen, who introduces himself as well as the two baby lizardfolk he cares for, who were brought to him by a jaguar who said they must be taken to the Footprint of the Gods. The next morning, as [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) prepare to set out for the Footprint of the Gods, they are joined by [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>), another lizardfolk, a skilled warrior, tracker, and guide.

The next morning, after some conversation, the party sets off for the Footprint of the Gods, led by [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>), who has traveled widely and knows the way. The first day’s travel through the jungle is uneventful, marked by [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) communing with the gods to try to understand the dangers they will face, learning that it is the elements – earth, air, fire, water – that will be the dangers in the jungle, and that the forest bleeds. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) speaks of his vision, of the wounded creature draining the jungle, upsetting the balance of the Footprint of the Gods. 

The next day, the party approaches the Footprint of the Gods, and the volcano that dominates the horizon, a faint red glow of lava visible on its summit, the crackling sound of something in the jungle ahead. The party stops to investigate, and sees a running river of lava cutting through the jungle, sizzling but not burning the trees it passes near. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) stops to reach out and commune with the forest, senses not only that the elemental [Elemental Plane of Fire](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/energy-realms/elemental-realms/elemental-plane-of-fire.md>) is intruding in the world of Taelgar here, but there is a whirlwind, a tornado pulling the energy of the spiritual realms into the center of the Footprint.

Meanwhile, [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>) and [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>), watching the river of laval, see racing along the surface, a spirit of fire, dancing in the lava, being chased and attacked by a flaming ankylosaurs and two giant wasps of fire. After debate as to whether and how to intervene in this fight, the party attacks the dinosaur and the wasps. [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) calls upon the power of the stars and takes on the form of a starry dragon constellation, shooting magic bolts of energy, while [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>) stabs with his pike and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) with his staff, disrupting the ki of these creatures.  

As the battle ends, the magma dancer turns to speak with his apparent saviors. The party learns this creature is called [Somi-nai](<../../../people/fey/somi-nai.md>), also known as Sugarra, and he is the volcano, the spirit of the volcano. He tells the party how his home has been overrun with fire, with pure destruction, with none of the rejuvenation that should accompany fire. Although skeptical and even contemptuous of their likelihood of success, [Somi-nai](<../../../people/fey/somi-nai.md>) speaks of [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>), the creature at the center of the great whirlwind in the heart of the Footprint of the Gods, the force that is draining [Somi-nai](<../../../people/fey/somi-nai.md>)’s power. He talks of [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>), one of the Gidari (guardians), coming from the veil, the [Land of the Dead](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/proximate-realms/land-of-the-dead.md>), for reasons unknown to him, and the destruction that [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) has wrought. While he has little advice for how to kill the creature, [Somi-nai](<../../../people/fey/somi-nai.md>) believes that [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) must die to restore order and harmony to the Footprint of the Gods.  

We end as [Somi-nai](<../../../people/fey/somi-nai.md>) returns to his domain, the volcano, and the party contemplates how to cross the running lava river. 

### Session 2

We begin at the edge of a river of lava in the jungle, the party considering how to cross. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) easily jumps the distance, while [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) polymorphs into a pterodactyl to fly across with [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>). Proceeding into the jungle from the other side after a brief rest, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>), and [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) find themselves heading towards a large expanse of flooded jungle. 

Venturing into the flooded area, with the two lizardfolk swimming comfortably and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) running across the water, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) looks for a tree to speak with, to understand more about what is happening here. Communing with one of the biggest and older trees he can find, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) speaks with Tree. Tree complains that everything has fled the jungle, the birds no longer sing in his hair and his roots are wet, and it is caused by [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>). Tree then tells [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), who is hoping for more information about [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) and the jungle, to speak with his children, specifically his daughter-tree who is inhabited by a spirit of the jungle. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) listens to [Tree’s story](<../collected-stories/trees-story.md>), collecting it for the Order of the Awakened Soul, and then reverently ends his communion with Tree. 

The party heads into the water in search of Tree’s daughter, noticing as they do that there is a current that is getting stronger and stronger as they head into the center of the jungle, following [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s intuition and sense of the jungle to find the right way to reach Tree’s daughter. After finding the tree-spirit, [Eleuha](<../../../people/fey/eleuha.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) speaks with her. She knows the babies that [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) defends, saying they are the children of [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>), the spirit of the jungle, and giving [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) a hard time for a mediocre babysitting skills ([Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) and [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>) are scouting underwater). [Eleuha](<../../../people/fey/eleuha.md>) tells them that [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>) has fallen silent, been lost, an thinks it has something to do with [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>)’s arrival. The babies are the newest children of [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>): shapeshifters, children unfixed in form, typically cared for by the jungle, taking on the form of those they love. Every once and while, when [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>) grows old and tired, one of his children will become him reborn, become the new guardian of this land. [Eleuha](<../../../people/fey/eleuha.md>), the dryad, also tells them that if [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) would go away, somehow, it feels to her like [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>) would return and all of the troubles of the jungle could be fixed.

The party follows the current, pulling them closer to the maelstrom of water that forms a vortex to the elemental plane of Water. Despite a few tense moments, as [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) falls and is forced to swim before being dragged to safety by [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>), and [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) needs to turn into a fish to make his way past the strong currents, the party mangages to navigate around the whirlpool vortex and finds themselves in a densely overgrown, misty island of dry land at the center of the Footprint of the Gods.

The party cautiously moves through the understory, the occasional glimpse of a serpent-like creature moving in the corner of their eyes, until [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) stops and yells “[Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>)! We are here to end your pain, we are here to help!” Suddenly, appearing in front of the party, is [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>), a thirty foot long serpentine creature, feathered, with an almost cat-like head, and with three wounds cut through its body, from each wound three writhing black chains of dark, necortic energy binding [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>). 

Screaming in pain, [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) attacks, swinging their tail at [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), who dodges at first, but then is struck, seeing in the moment of contact that the wounds are not physical wounds, or not just physical wounds, they (and the chains) extent to the spiritual realm as well, fragments of dreams buried in the wounds. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) reaches out and becomes part of the wound.

[Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) sees a lonely warrior, nondescript, at the end of their life, forgotten, afraid of dying alone and nobody caring, their sword hanging uselessly at their side. They look up, saying “I am forgotten, aren’t I. No one remembers me.” His dejected, lonely face turns to surprise when [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) offers to [tell his story](<../collected-stories/nameless-chardonian-warrior-s-story.md>), collecting it for the Order of the Awakened Soul, despite the warrior’s insistence that his life had little meaning, his captain the one who won glory in battle, his brother who achieved wealth in life, with a beautiful family and accomplished children. As he tells his story, the image of the warrior fades, and the face of [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) appears.

“No. That is not my story. I am eternal. I protected souls like him. Until a year ago, a creature came to the River of the Dead, a shadowy, skeletal figure, where a long black cloak, carrying a wicked glaive, and wearing a burning ring of dark fire on his hand.” 

Meanwhile, in the jungle, as the first wound closes the chains slither forward, attacking [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>), as shadows begin to emerge from the ground, bearing down on [Enari](<../../../people/lizardfolk/enari.md>). As [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) animates the forest to fight back against the chains, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) merges with the second wound.

[Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) sees a nondescript traveler in a vast, empty desert, lost, dying of thirst, seeming to be trying to scratch out a letter or a note on a stone. She looks up as you appear, croaking, “I am dying. I have no paper to write with.” [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) offers to tell her story, asking her what must be written, that they can do this together, but she says she just needs to write a letter to her family, one more time, tell them they are loved, tell them that she lived a good life, that she knew the risks, that they should not refuse to live their lives because she is gone. 

As [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) asks her name, she begins to fade, and emerging from her mouth is a miniature version of [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>), who begins to grow. “They do not have names anymore,” [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) says, and continues telling their story. “The creature, the skeleton, he carried with him a scroll, an ancient thing of power. As he spoke the words on the scroll, it burst into dark fire and turned to ash, and the ring grew brighter, wrapping around his glaive, encasing it flames of shadow. As he walked, he burned marks with his glaive in the very fabric of the land, marks that pulsed with a heartbeat, with life in this lifeless place. And I could not let that stand.”

In the jungle, although [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) has destroyed some of the first set of chains, three more chains burst forth as the second wound begins to close. With the necrotic shadows clawing at him, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) enters the third and final wound. 

[Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) sees a holy warrior, a paladin, fighting a hopeless battle against dozens of monsters, their forms constantly shifting. Behind them is a door, and people fleeing, trying to get out, trying to escape, while the paladin stands holding back the horde. The warrior, seeing [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), speaks: “I don’t know how long I can last. I am afraid of dying, afraid it will hurt. My spirit may not be strong enough to hold on, for everyone to flee.” [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) offers to tell his story, ensure it lives forever, but the warrior does not seem to care. “I do not fear the death of my story,” he says, “I fear that I will not have the strength to do the right thing, that even with my sacrifice it will not be enough, and I will be damned, my soul consumed by the Nine Hells.” [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) moves to join the warrior in the fight, but it does not seem to be enough, or what is needed, to heal this wound.

Meanwhile, in the jungle, [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) continues his battle against these chains. The wrath of the jungle manages to destroy some of them, but the rest swarm around [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>), battering him. 

In the wound, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) sees the warrior looking around in a panic. “I don’t think it matters what I do, I can feel the cage closing in on me. I’m just going to run, there is no redemption for me.” As [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) throws all his strength at the warrior, draining his own energy, he experiences the sweep of the warrior’s life. Growing up on the streets, no parents, never finding anyone to give him a helping hand. Turning to thievery, banditry, eventually robbing caravans. In middle age, a price on his head, finding his way to a Temple of the Wilding (one of the [Eight Divines](<../../../cosmology/religions/mos-numena.md>)), saying to the priest that he cannot go on like this. Rumors of monster attacks, trolls raiding villages, asking the priest if it would be enough, if he repaid what was taken from them. The priest assuring him that the Wilding will look after him. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), then, turning to him, telling him, “I know your story. I know your journey. I’ve walked the path myself. I grew up with no parents, I grew up alone, poisoned, abused. It was only by sheer luck I was taken in by someone who could teach me. Redemption is before you.” As [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) finishes speaking, the warrior runs into battle, and the wound closes. 

And [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) sees now that it is not the warrior fighting, it is [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>). They are in a battle with the skeletal creature – [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) – and with each swing of the glaive, each strike, a gaping wound opens, and from each wound necrotic chains emerge, binding [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>). [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) becomes weaker and weaker, moving slower and then not at all, tumbling from the [Land of the Dead](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/proximate-realms/land-of-the-dead.md>). As they do, [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) staggers back, exhausted but triumphant, the ring on his hand glowing, tendrils of energy reaching out from it, grasping souls from the [Land of the Dead](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/proximate-realms/land-of-the-dead.md>), pulling them through the marks that [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) carved with his glaive and the magic of an ancient scroll. 

As [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) emerges again, battling the last of these necrotic chains with [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>), one manages to penetrate his soul, wrapping around him, but the rest are defeated, and [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) goes calm. They bow their head in gratitude, and [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) commune together, experiencing a vision of the thousands of souls [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) has sheparded to their fates. In their communion, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) senses the rush of ki, the richness of the symphony of ki here in the jungle, which flows into his staff. 

Meanwhile, the party hears the low growl of a jaguar pacing through the jungle – [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>). He approaches, greeting the babies, thanking [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) for keeping open the door through which [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>) could travel, clearly implying that it was only the presence of the babies [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) guarded and guided to this place that allows [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>) to appear here. [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>) says he will restore the jungle, with [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>)’s help; [Izzarak](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/izzarak.md>) also volunteers to remain and raise the babies here, and see how he can help bring the jungle back into balance. 

We end as [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) prepares to depart to the [Feywild](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/feywild.md>), after spending some time learning from [Motua](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/motua.md>) and [Lengau](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/lengau.md>), to be plane-shifted to Lastlight Falls, where he will meet his friends in the [Feywild](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/feywild.md>).

## Treasures, Boons, Rewards, and Curses
- [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) learned the lizardfolk tongue during his time in the village of Bedez, mostly from [Elazar](<../../../people/lizardfolk/elazar.md>)
- [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) has one black necrotic chain bound to his soul, drawing him closer to death, and giving him disadvantage on death saving throws, which cannot be negated in any way. This can be attempted to be removed by a greater restoration spell combined with a sacrifice of an item of personal significance. 
- [Staff of the Forest Soul](<../treasure/gifts-and-heirlooms/staff-of-the-forest-soul.md>)









