---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 2 (DuFr)
---

**(Friday June 12, 2020; in Taeglar, evening March 22 to mid-morning March 25)**

[Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) of Highkeep, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) Goodbarrel, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), arriving at the [Gomat](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/gomat.md>) Oasis past sunset, tired and weary from a long journey in the desert sun, find the oasis beset by three giant lizards, feasting on dead sheep. Deciding to attack, the party made relatively quick work of the beasts. Exhausted, and unable to determine much in the dark, the party camped for the night.

In the morning, exploring the oasis, they found signs of a battle and clear tracks of the giant lizards heading east, into the wilderness. While dissecting the lizards in search of clues to their particularly vicious and bloodthirsty behavior, an older man, wounded but alive, appeared on the horizon on horseback. Hailing him, the party learned that he was [Akan](<../../../people/dunmari/akan.md>), one of the survivors of the giant lizard attack on [Gomat](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/gomat.md>) the night before. His extended family had been camped at the oasis, grazing their herds, for several days, intending to rest and relax before the [Festival of Rebirth](<../../../time/holidays-and-festivals/dunmari-festivals/festival-of-rebirth.md>). In the afternoon, the lizards attacked. They tried to fight them off, and managed to kill one while fleeing, but the lizards were relentless and would not be scared away, and several members of [Akan](<../../../people/dunmari/akan.md>)’s family were killed before all could get on horseback to flee. He had returned to reclaim supplies -- food and water and the like -- before heading to [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>). Before departing, his nephew headed north and west to warn others to get to town as quickly as possible. 

The party, however, headed east. Traveling and talking during the long hot day, they followed the trade road due east. Along the way, they noticed the rotting corpses of several dead peccaries just off the road, killed in the past few days, with obvious signs of lizard tracks. Some were consumed, but others just left to rot -- very unusual behavior for giant lizards. 

In the late afternoon, they came to wide canyon ripped into the earth. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) especially was taken by how unnatural the landscape seemed, both the rugged badlands to the south, and the canyon itself, which clearly was not formed by the usual processes of gradual erosion. Descending the slope was easy enough to start, but a basalt outcropping about three quarters of the way down stopped them for the evening. 

Returning in the morning after [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) magically created a doorless earthen barn for [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s horse, the party made their way slowly down to the bottom of the canyon. Here, it became apparent that many animal tracks crossed and criss-crossed the terrain, all converging in the east on a sloping side canyon leading up to the remains of the trade road. Following the path, the party stood on the other side of the canyon, where the entire landscape seemed bloodthirsty and enraged. Ants and scorpions swarming the ground, the remains of a battle between a giant scorpion and a giant hyena -- everywhere they turned something was attacking something else. 

In the distance, two towers, the gatehouse to a ruined fort, drew them in. Approaching the fort, the party saw before them a path leading to an earthenworks dike, upon which was set a ruined wall, with the two partially intact towers guarding the gate and causeway leading into the fort. Outside the walls were the foundations of a small cluster of buildings, all collapsed, and two large mounds -- on the left, a grassy mound, on the right, one of rubble and dirt. Passing the mound, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) felt something evil, an undead presence, and shouted a warning just as a skeletal hand began reaching out of the dirt. Four skeletons climbed out of the disturbed ground and attacked, although were dispatched without much damage as the party discovered newfound abilities within themselves. 

After the battle, searching the area revealed clear indications that the skeleton mound had been recently disturbed, in the past month or so at least, and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) noticed signs that someone had been around in that time frame. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), with his historical knowledge, identified the fort as likely dating to the [Great War](<../../../events/1500s/great-war.md>), being a typical Dunmari layout and design at that time. 

With that, the party headed up the causeway to the fort, ready for anything.

