---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 18 (DuFr)
---


**(Friday, Feb 5th, 2021; in Taelgar, afternoon of April 24th)

We open in a bare room, the party, [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>), and [Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>) clustered around a map, discussing the gnolls, what [Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>) found in the south, the events at [Raven's Hold](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/raven-s-hold.md>), and [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) Dustmother. The conversation is wide-ranging, touching on many subjects.

The dark magic of [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>), also known as the [Old Woman of the Dusts](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>), is discussed, and how she makes deals that always seem to turn out worse, and darker than expected. So are demons, and how they have little power to reach the world of Taelgar, unless summoned, opening up a portal to allow them through to wreck havoc. While not common these days, many demons fought in the [Great War](<../../../events/1500s/great-war.md>), aiding the armies of [Cha'mutte](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/cha-mutte.md>). 

No one is sure where the gnolls to the south came from -- whether there is another demon there, making more gnolls -- but [Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>) points out that it would be possible for them to have traveled south from [Raven's Hold](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/raven-s-hold.md>) in the blasted plain. That raises more questions, though, like why they were heading to [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) and then into the desert. 

Throughout the conversation, [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) is distracted, worried, and nervous, and when the topic of conversation steers towards [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>)’s protection and its absence, he becomes silent and refuses to discuss further. The only time he speaks with force and vigor is when [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) suggests there is nothing left of value in [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) to besiege it for, as the land has been overrun already, and [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) corrects him that the [Temple of Shakun](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/temple-of-shakun.md>) has never fallen. As he leaves to pray, he seems shaken, and overwhelmed.

Before leaving, he tells the party the tales of how to find [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>), should they wish it: head east to the eastern edge of the [mesa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/red-mesa.md>), then turn south, and look for an animal behaving strangely: a crow flying due south, a line of black beetles, a lizard moving slowly and watching. Follow that animal, and it will lead you to [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s home.

After some discussion of what to do next, and a brief conversation with [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>), who is angling for the party to come east hunting [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) and gnolls with him, the group heads to find [Tharandros](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/tharandros.md>), the leader of the [Centaurs](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/centaurs/centaurs.md>). [Tharandros](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/tharandros.md>) is happy to speak with them at length, over food and wine, as he is overjoyed that they removed the demonic corruption from the land.

Another wide-ranging conversation occurs, touching on the echo realms (the [Shadowfell](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/shadowfell/shadowfell.md>), [Feywild](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/feywild.md>), [Nightmare Realm](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/proximate-realms/nightmare-realm.md>), [Dreamworld](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/proximate-realms/dreamworld.md>), and perhaps many more), the resonances in the world that they are echos and reflections of, and the mythic history of the days of great magic before the echo realms were created by [The Riving](<../../../events/ancient/the-riving.md>), which sundered some of the chaos of Taelgar. From [Tharandros](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/tharandros.md>), the party learned that [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) is a fey creature, and that she and the [Centaurs](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/centaurs/centaurs.md>) had an agreement that she would stay south of the road, in the desert and canyonlands, while the [Centaurs](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/centaurs/centaurs.md>) would have the plains to the north. He also hinted she may have been an ally of [Cha'mutte](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/cha-mutte.md>) in the [Great War](<../../../events/1500s/great-war.md>), and this is the cause of her desire for revenge.

Finally, the conversation returns to [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) and the [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) mysteries. [Tharandros](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/tharandros.md>) says there is something wrong here, a silence where their should be echoes and reverberations, something missing from the land, and asks the party if they can find out more. As the conversation ends, the party decides that perhaps the answers they seek lie to the east, and prepare to find [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) to discuss joining forces.

