---
excludeRooted: [Clee]
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 21 (DuFr)
---


**(Saturday, March 13th, 2021; in Taelgar, evening of May 5th to May 11th)

We begin as the battle with the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) ends, the party collecting themselves after a tough fight, and deciding to deal with their captive, one of the [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) clerics named [Gorkil](<../../../people/orcs/gorkil.md>). There is little to note among the wreckage of the battle, although the party does take note of the symbol that seems to be painted on these [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) faces and gear: a rising sun, below a screaming face. 

Heading into [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s camp, they speak briefly with [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>), and [Aram](<../../../people/dunmari/aram.md>), a holy warrior and healer of [Aagir](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/aagir.md>). [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) lost four of his warriors in the fight, which was tougher and more deadly than expected, both because of the sophistication of the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) battle plan and their magic. 

As they prepare to interrogate the [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), [Aram](<../../../people/dunmari/aram.md>) touches him to revive him. The [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) is a servant of [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>), the Blighted One, whom he believes will bring him back ten times stronger if he dies. He rants continually on [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>)’s power and how if you serve [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>), you will never die, and the battle is not yet over, which prompts the party to suggest that the bodies of the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) be burned. As [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) leaves to take care of that task, the party continues their questioning. They learn that [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) is in [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), and that the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) found him perhaps a year ago. [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) demands that they seek treasure and tribute, especially that they seek to take the treasure of the other group of [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), [Uzgash](<../../../people/orcs/uzgash.md>)’s brats [Gorkil](<../../../people/orcs/gorkil.md>) calls them, dismissively. He says they ([Uzgash](<../../../people/orcs/uzgash.md>)’s brats) are peaceful, farming and raising animals, although where exactly he does not say. As the interrogation continues, [Gorkil](<../../../people/orcs/gorkil.md>) suddenly demands that [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) kill him, adding a magical command to his voice that compels [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) to lunge forward and cut his throat. 

After some conversation about where to go next, [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) returns to tell the party they are ready for the funeral of the four who died in the battle, and asks if the party would join them. The bodies are burned -- with care, not in a pile like the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) -- and both [Aram](<../../../people/dunmari/aram.md>) and [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) speak a few words. After, [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) approaches the party with the [magical bowstring](<../treasure/gifts-and-heirlooms/flaming-bowstring.md>) used by [Camana](<../../../people/dunmari/camana.md>), the leader of [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s scouts who died in the battle, and asks [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) if he would like the magical bowstring, which can light arrows on fire as they launch. 

The next day, after hearing from [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s returning scouts that there is little moving in the lands west of the Kharja river (the river which [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) is on), the party decides to head for the [Monastery of Bhishma](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/monastery-of-bhishma.md>), traveling south some distance before turning east and north, hoping to approach from the south and avoid [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) entirely. The journey through the desert is several days of walking under the hot sun, everything brown and dry at the end of the long dry season before the brief summer thunderstorms arrive. Traveling quickly for the first two days carries them far south, and a bit further west than intended, so it takes a bit longer to reach the dry river and turn north than expected.

Five days after leaving [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s troops, the party arrives at the Kharja river, briefly considering scouting what appears to be a stand of trees far to the south, but instead turns north to their destination. The river bed is dry, with cliffs on the western edge and a floodplain on the eastern edge, and after a hot journey the party arrives within sight of [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) in the late afternoon of May 11th. 

The city of [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) stretches out on the floodplains, a walled city at least a mile across, once a place of great monumental architecture, but now partially in ruins. A huge temple, a stadium, and a palace in the center of the city are notable surviving landmarks, as are the bridge over the river and the main gates to the city, a pair of horses rearing to form an archway. On the cliffs above the city and across the river, twelve tombs stand, all sharing a pentagonal step pyramid design, but otherwise different in form and scale. These are the tombs of the rulers of the first Dunmari dynasty, starting with the tomb of [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/bhishma.md>) (marked by a large -- 40’ tall -- statue of her). South of the city, an [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) fort is under construction, a warren and maze of walls and enclosed spaces. Further south beyond that is the monastery, seemingly untouched. 