---
excludeRooted: [Clee]
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 45 (DuFr)
---


**(Thursday, May 5th, 2022; in Taelgar, July 23rd - Aug 8th)

We begin as [Kadmos](<../../../people/chardonians/kadmos.md>), [Casian](<../../../people/chardonians/casian.md>), and [Marcella](<../../../people/chardonians/marcella.md>) flee, leaving behind the party – near death – and a fire starting in the ruins of the temple, caused by the fireballs slung by [Casian](<../../../people/chardonians/casian.md>) in the fight. In desperation, the party scrambles to flee to safety, finding shelter near the abandoned mines about a half mile away from the city. Here, they spend the night, getting a much needed rest after the difficulties of the evening. 

Waking near noon, the party discusses their options and the events of the night before. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) reports on his conversation with [Marcella](<../../../people/chardonians/marcella.md>): there is something dark at the heart of the [Society of the Open Scroll](<../../../groups/society-of-the-open-scroll.md>), some power that they have to control people. [Hektor](<../../../people/chardonians/hektor.md>), the barbarian, was a sweet boy once, a sailor who liked to sing, but was turned to a servant of [Kadmos](<../../../people/chardonians/kadmos.md>) through and through. [Marcella](<../../../people/chardonians/marcella.md>) was the thief, and was supposed to be the treasure finder, and is worried that if she does not succeed in a score, she will be taken away next, and come out as something not herself. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) gave her his [Boots of False Tracks](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/boots-of-false-tracks.md>) and maps to help her get to [Sembara](<../../../gazetteer/greater-sembara/sembara/sembara.md>), should she be able to escape.

While discussing the events of the night before, the party convinces [Johar](<../../../people/dunmari/johar.md>) to take charge of the blood money from the Chardonians, and, when he has time, take it to [Saka](<../../../people/dunmari/saka.md>), who will take charge of it and take charge of the mission to track down the families of the bandits. This may take quite some time, given his mission in [Nayahar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/western-dunmar/nayahar.md>), but he will do his best.

The conversation turns to the situation in [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), and speculation as to how [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) got in the [Mirror of Soul Trapping](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/mirror-of-soul-trapping.md>), whether she was paid and if so by who, or whether she was simply sowing chaos. To help, perhaps, the party starts to investigate items they found in [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s lair in [The Mirror of the Past](<../treasure/treasure-from-stormcaller-tower/the-mirror-of-the-past.md>), starting with the [Ring of Displacement](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/ring-of-displacement.md>). As usual, they see a [vision of its past](<../mirror-visions/ring-of-displacement-vision.md>) in the mirror. 

After discussing the scenes in the mirror and the various evidence for ancient Drankorian magic, the party decides to scout the ruins a bit more before turning west to [Darba](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/coastal-dunmar/darba/darba.md>). [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) proceed invisibly to collect the coins and treasure from the lair, and notice while they are doing so the poison troll is awake, and seemingly looking for the wyverns, poking at their lair with a stick. Deciding to sneak up on it and catch it in the [Mirror of Soul Trapping](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/mirror-of-soul-trapping.md>), they succeed despite a few mishaps.

With the poison troll trapped, the party headed for the road again, reaching the next waystation and outpost, run by a woman named [Padma](<../../../people/dunmari/padma.md>) in a few days time. Here, they brought welcome news of the wyvern’s demise, and then continued west towards [Darba](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/coastal-dunmar/darba/darba.md>). Passing through the increasingly settled and lush land of the [Darba](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/coastal-dunmar/darba/darba.md>) hinterlands, in less that two weeks they reached the outskirts of the city, where our session ends. 

Along the way, they looked at one more object in the mirror, the valuable diamond [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) carried on her person, again [seeing a vision of its past](<../mirror-visions/extravagant-diamond-vision.md>). 