---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 13 (DuFr)
---

**(Friday, Nov 20th, 2020; in Taelgar, morning April 13th to evening April 13th)**

We begin as the party is finishing breakfast in the quiet of [Raven's Hold](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/raven-s-hold.md>), the silence and stillness broken only by the howling of animals trapped in the stables, while contemplating the secrets of [Raven's Hold](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/raven-s-hold.md>). Wanting to figure out the mystery of where the gnolls came from, what the demon was doing, and how this is all connected, the party decides to explore.

In the outer barracks and outbuildings of [Raven's Hold](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/raven-s-hold.md>), they find a number of treasures. Some, left scattered and hidden in the ruins of what seemed to have been the lair of a large monster at one point, including a [silver helm](<../treasure/treasure-from-raven-s-hold/helm-of-iron-will.md>) from [Drankor](<../../../history/drankorian-era/drankor.md>), and an [enchanted red gem](<../treasure/treasure-from-raven-s-hold/elemental-gem.md>). Others, locked away in a storeroom dating to the hobgoblin occupation of this fort, including a few useful potions and a very creepy [hobgoblin standard](<../treasure/treasure-from-raven-s-hold/hobgoblin-battle-standard.md>). However, the only real clue about the gnolls is the discovery of a number of recently delivered weapons and armor: a scattered mess of various seemingly-scavenged items, some Dunmari of various ages, some older, some recent, crude but effective construction. Enough to arm and equip maybe 100 soldiers, to at least a basic level. 

While the rest of the party is scouting these buildings, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) wanders off to look around with his fey sight. Sensing an aura of extraplanar energy lingering over the holdfast, he begins to explore and realizes that the source of this abyssal energy seems to be coming from the valley, not the mists or dark waters of the castle. Wanting to deal with this Abyssal corruption before attempting to free the animals, they head into the valley.

About a half mile down the well-constructed dwarven road, they come to the river and the sweeping arch of a marble and quartz bridge spanning it, beautifully and elegantly constructed by [Dwarves](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/dwarves/dwarves.md>). The river itself, however, is dark and sluggish, obscured by mists and fog, and clogged with bruised-looking thorny plants and matted plant material. On the ground near the river is a circle of runes. [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), looking with his shadow sight, watching the Abyssal runes form into meaning: “I bind you. I call you. I command you. Enter, and obey, for a month and a day." 

As [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) moves to scratch out the circle with his shadow sword, from the river movement erupts, and the tangled vines and thorns coalesce into a ten-foot-tall humanoid creature, which moves to strike. As it attacks and the party fights back, a miasma oozes out from the demonic plant creature, poisoning [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>). After a short, intense fight, the creature is destroyed, and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) uses a scroll found in the ruins to heal [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) before the poison and disease take hold. As [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) finishes destroying the circle of runes by reshaping the ground beneath them, the river bursts forth, sweeping away the corruption of the demonic presence here. 

With the corruption fading from the land, the party searches the area, and finds what seems to be the [remains](<../treasure/treasure-from-raven-s-hold/ivory-scroll-cap.md>) of a spell scroll, presumably what was used to create this circle. Turning back to the castle, and the animals trapped within, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) uses his ability to speak with animals, combined with weaving compelling magic into his words, to suggest that the largest, most dominant lion lead the pack away from here to live free and disperse on the plains. As the animals file out under the sway of [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s magic and the lion, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) climbs on the back of the lion and rides off with them into the valley.

Feeling satisfied that at least the demonic danger has passed, and with some hypotheses about what has happened at [Raven's Hold](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/raven-s-hold.md>), the party returns to their horses through the dwarven fortress, avoiding [Inakara](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/inakara.md>) and her people. On the way, they stop to investigate a large, living statute of stone that [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) had seen while scouting. It seemed to be guarding the forge and mines, but also to be quite damaged. After some brief conversation in dwarvish, and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) showing the [shield of her family](<../treasure/treasure-from-raven-s-hold/shield-of-the-brawnanvil-clan.md>), the statue defers to them and lets them pass, although it seems magically resistant to [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s attempts to shrink it for transport. The forge and mine area is mostly destroyed, seemingly attacked by something, perhaps whatever damaged the statue. However, there is some of the adamantium, a valuable and extremely hard metal, left, which the party takes on their floating disk, with the half-plate from the hobgoblin storeroom. 

Returning to their horses, the party heads south in the few hours of afternoon light left, before making camp as the sun sets, near the south road back into [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) and the pass north.