---
excludeRooted: [Clee]
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 49 (DuFr)
---

**(Thursday, June 30th, 2022; in Taelgar, Aug 22nd - Aug 24th)**

We start as the party makes their way through the [University of Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/university-of-chardon.md>) area, to find the scholar [Gnaeus](<../../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>), who wrote a book about the people of the [Elderwood](<../../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>) that mentioned [Rai](<../../../people/pcs/great-war/rai.md>). Interrupting his meager class, they buy him lunch and offer a recommendation about his skill, and he tells his story. Although he has been disgraced for using enchantment magic to learn about the Deno’qai in the forest, he claims what he tells is the truth. From [Gnaeus](<../../../people/chardonians/gnaeus.md>), the party learns about the tribes of the Deno’qai, including the [Baz'aku](<../../../groups/deno-qai/baz-aku.md>), who trade with the Chardonians in the [Chasa](<../../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/rivers/chasa.md>) River Valley; the reclusive hunters of the [Bek'eni](<../../../groups/deno-qai/bek-eni.md>), and the [Te'kula](<../../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>), who have hidden themselves away to avoid some great evil they will not mention. 

After lunch, the party goes to speak with [Roscelia](<../../../people/chardonians/roscelia.md>), meeting her for tea at her estate. She introduces them to a friend, [Lyra](<../../../people/chardonians/lyra.md>), an archivist at the [Great Library](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/great-library.md>), who is interested in stories of adventurers. After introductions and some small talk, they speak about the [Chalice of the Runepriest](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/chalice-of-the-runepriest.md>) and the [Giant’s Eyes](<../treasure/treasure-from-stormcaller-tower/hralgar-s-eyes.md>), and adventures. [Roscelia](<../../../people/chardonians/roscelia.md>) and [Lyra](<../../../people/chardonians/lyra.md>) are not particularly fond of [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>), and give the impression that he spends money freely to buy favor and influence. He is, for example, always outbidding the [Great Library](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/great-library.md>) to acquire the services of adventurers. [Lyra](<../../../people/chardonians/lyra.md>), in particular, is annoyed with him because she sees the [Society of the Open Scroll](<../../../groups/society-of-the-open-scroll.md>) as an amateur explorer’s club that encourages careless adventuring, not a careful and serious academic endeavor like the [Great Library](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/great-library.md>). But according to [Lyra](<../../../people/chardonians/lyra.md>) and [Roscelia](<../../../people/chardonians/roscelia.md>), probably both [Galen](<../../../people/chardonians/galen.md>), who has the chalice, and [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>), who has the eyes, can be bargained with. 

The next day, the party splits up for errands: [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) sells art and buys supplies for the journey to the [Elderwood](<../../../gazetteer/chasa-nahadi-watershed/elderwood.md>), and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) returns to Uflgar’s and reads the book about magic mirrors to try to learn more command words for the [Mirror of Soul Trapping](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/mirror-of-soul-trapping.md>). Everyone meets in the late afternoon for [Galen](<../../../people/chardonians/galen.md>)’s lecture on the wonders of the elemental planes. It an impressive show, mostly of illusion, but also involving the summoning of a real air elemental under [Galen](<../../../people/chardonians/galen.md>)’s control. 

After the show, the party speaks with [Galen](<../../../people/chardonians/galen.md>), who seems disappointed with the [Chalice of the Runepriest](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/chalice-of-the-runepriest.md>) – despite a clear connection to the outer planes he cannot get it to do anything. He is willing to part with it for a small premium over what he paid the [Great Library](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/great-library.md>) for it, only 10,000 gp, or perhaps a bit less if the party will throw in some small magical trinket of interest. Eventually, they agree to 8,000 gp plus the [Black Light Candle](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/black-light-candle.md>) that gives off darkness when burned. [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) will get the money from the [Dwarves](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/dwarves/dwarves.md>) in the morning and return to [Galen](<../../../people/chardonians/galen.md>) to finish the deal.

The party also speaks with [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) to negotiate for [Hralgar's Eyes](<../treasure/treasure-from-stormcaller-tower/hralgar-s-eyes.md>). [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) initially offers that if they go to [Illoria](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/illoria.md>) with [Dee Wildcloak](<../../../people/halflings/dee-wildcloak.md>) and [Dain Goldhammer](<../../../people/dwarves/dain-goldhammer.md>), and help [Servius](<../../../people/chardonians/servius.md>) in his search for treasure there, he will give them the eyes as part of their payment when they return. Although tempted, the party turns this down, and instead trades information (telling [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) about [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) and the [Ring of Undying](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/ring-of-undying.md>)) and the [Pandemonium Scroll](<../treasure/treasure-from-tokra/pandemonium-scroll.md>) from the werewolves. 

The next morning, while [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) goes to get money for [Galen](<../../../people/chardonians/galen.md>), the rest of the party goes to meet [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) with the [Pandemonium Scroll](<../treasure/treasure-from-tokra/pandemonium-scroll.md>), to trade for the eyes, despite some misgivings and suspicion that it may be a trap. [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) is excited to see them, and leads them up a long staircase to a magical workshop. Here, as soon as he gets the scroll, he, of course, turns on the party. Two glass warriors step out of the stained glass windows to attack, and a lightning creature emerges from a bottle on the table. [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) disappears, first telling the party that they were foolish to think they could take [The Cleansed](<../../../groups/the-cleansed.md>) by surprise, and that none of them were even pure enough to be worth saving anyway. 

The party decides to flee, smashing through the windows and holding off the glasswork and lightning creatures while everyone dashes out with the eyes, a mace, and the gems from the giant’s crown. While [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s attempt to banish [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) and give them breathing room fails, for a moment it seems like everyone will get out: [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) dashes down the walls of the tower and gracefully glides to the ground; [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) uses the [Raven Whistle](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/raven-whistle.md>) to fly down; and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) fly using [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s magic. However, [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>) reemerges and launches a psychic attack on [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), causing [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) to lose concentration and both [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) to plummet nearly 200 feet to the ground. The impact knocks both unconscious, although the quick application of potions and healing mud brings them back to flee. 

After a desperate dash to the southern edge of the city, as a commotion arises behind them due to [Fausto](<../../../people/chardonians/fausto.md>)’s accusations of theft, the party meets [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) near the southern wall. She has been hearing echoes from the [Chalice of the Runepriest](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/chalice-of-the-runepriest.md>), and urges everyone to grab it - unfortunately, it is only [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) that is teleported away by the chalice’s magic. As a backup plan, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) teleports to a few hundred feet outside the city with the rest of the party hiding in the [Portable Hole](<../treasure/treasure-from-tokra/portable-hole.md>), and then polymorphs into a raven to fly further south.

We end as the party catches their breath in a field about ½ mile south of [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>), hiding by the side of a barn, hoping that no one gave a second thought to the raven that flew here from just outside the gates. 