---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 79 (DuFr)
---

*in which the party enters the Edge of Echoes*

**In the real world:** Sept 27, 2023
**In Taelgar:**  Jan 3, 1749 - Jan 8, 1749
## Summary

## Notes and Information

Start:  afternoon, Jan 3rd, 1749 
End: afternoon, Jan 8th, 1749
## Timeline 
- Jan 03, 1749 DR: Spend afternoon in [Tollen](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/tollen/tollen.md>)
- Jan 04, 1749 DR: Take care of [Tollen](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/tollen/tollen.md>) business
- Jan 05, 1749 DR: Take care of [Tollen](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/tollen/tollen.md>) business
- Jan 06, 1749 DR: Depart; reach middle of the [Western Gulf](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/western-gulf.md>) by nightfall
- Jan 07, 1749 DR: Dawn over [Western Gulf](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/western-gulf.md>); reach coast of [Cymea](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/cymea/cymea.md>) by evening; fly over [Cymea](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/cymea/cymea.md>) overnight
- Jan 08, 1749 DR: Arrive at Edge of Echoes early afternoon. Land [Vindristjarna](<../../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>), descend into cave. Navigate down underground river by boat; fight water elements in a vast underground lake; traverse elemental hazards; arrive at ancient Drankorian ruins. 
## New Treasure
- A darkvision tattoo, acquired by [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) from [Cecilia Lister](<../../../people/tollenders/cecilia-lister.md>)

## Narrative

During the first days of the new year, the party spends time in [Tollen](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/tollen/tollen.md>), taking care of personal and party business. 

*Over the past few days, you have finished your business in [Tollen](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/tollen/tollen.md>), for now, and said your goodbyes, with the hope to return soon. You are leaving with your stock of coin lighter by 22,500 gold, and without the [Flaming Tempest](<../../../things/ships/flaming-tempest.md>), the trade goods you recovered, or the [Skaer steel](<../../../things/materials/skaer-steel.md>). Some of this went to the purchase of a number of important components for spells (four jeweled bowls for Hero's Feast, diamond powder for Greater Restoration, two diamonds for raising the dead, should it be necessary, and ruby dust for Forbiddance), and a tattoo for [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), but most was left behind with Adam Gower, a trusted agent who has worked with the Goodbarrels in the past. Adam will coordinate with [Umli](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/umli.md>) to have the arrows and shield she is making transported to you via magical courier when ready, hire a crew to begin breaking down the [Flaming Tempest](<../../../things/ships/flaming-tempest.md>) into usable timber, and sell the trade goods. 

During this time, everyone has taken care of personal business, too. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) spends time contemplating the planes, and also composing a letter to his parents, updating them on where he has been and asking about [Frankar](<../../../people/dwarves/frankar.md>)'s disappearance. When not in thought, he is tinkering around the skyship with [Faldrak Bronzehammer](<../../../people/dwarves/faldrak-bronzehammer.md>). 

[Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), in addition to getting his darkvision tattoo and connecting the party to Adam Gower, has spent a lot of time with the [halfling](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/halflings/halflings.md>) community here, listening to stories, chatting with elders, and reconnecting with his roots. In his spare time, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) works on the growing map room on [Vindristjarna](<../../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>). 

[Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) spends time cultivating the garden on the skyship, and wandering [Tollen](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/tollen/tollen.md>) learning of the local fauna and the local nature, while also spending time with [Iskra](<../../../people/skaer/iskra.md>), who he shares a deep connection and spiritual journey with, and is perhaps kind of his girlfriend now. While not out and about, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) has also been working on a hall of stories for the ship, in honor of [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/bhishma.md>), telling not just the tales of the party, but those they have met as well. 

[Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) spends time returning to his quartermaster roots, both working on the kitchen and the storerooms on [Vindristjarna](<../../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>), and spending time stocking the ship with a variety of useful goods for the journey. He also visits [Melindir](<../../../people/elves/melindir.md>) again, and gets the packet of letters he promised to deliver to [Orenlas](<../../../gazetteer/istaros-watershed/orenlas/orenlas.md>).

The party departs [Tollen](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/tollen/tollen.md>) the morning of January 6th, crossing the [Western Gulf](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/western-gulf.md>) and arriving on the western shores of [Cymea](<../../../gazetteer/western-green-sea/cymea/cymea.md>) by nightfall on January 7th. Traveling through the night and into the morning, the party arrives at the Freccila River and the cave entrance to the Edge of Echoes at midday. Before exploring, they are interrupted by the arrival of a paper bird bearing a [message](<../letters-notes-and-tales/philosopher-s-information-concerning-frankar.md>) for [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>).

The party explores a bit, with the aid of a bat summoned from [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)'s hat, Faldrak and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) investigating the cave, and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) communing with nature. Eventually they determine that the best course of action is to continue down the river. Pulling out the portable boat, they set out with [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) taking the helm. 

After navigating a brief stretch of rapids, the party hears the roar of a waterfall ahead. [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) sends a moth to scout, and reports the waterfall falls into a large underground lake. At the last minute, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) tries to stop the boat as he notices a landing area on the top of the waterfall, but slightly mistimes the immovable rod activation, so is instead left hanging above the lake while the rest of the party and the boat falls over the edge. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and Faldrak fall into the lake, while [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) manage to reactivate the boat and land safety on it. 

Before the party can regroup, everybody but [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) is surprised by the sudden emergence of several water creatures, some shaped like giant flying manta rays, other more like elemental forces of water. They attack, trying to drag the party into the water and pull them down into the depths. The water elemental succeeds in grabbing [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and beginning to drag him into the depths, until it is banished (temporarily) by [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>). [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and Faldrak are both able to use magic to teleport to shore, while [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) defend the boat and eventually take down the elementals attacking, and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) shoots from a distance.

The party continues into a large, clearly constructed room that is just off the small shoreline of the underground lake. Two rows of columns support the ceiling and lead towards a large stone door. The entire hall seems to be overgrown with stone, that creeps and oozes over everything like some kind of strange fungal growth. After some investigation, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) try to crack open the stone that encrusts the door, while [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) scouts some other tunnels. 

As [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) chips a big crack in the stone around the door, suddenly, the floor turns to mud, and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) sinks up to his chin. It takes some effort, but [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) manage to pull him out. Each attempt to crack open the stone seems to cause more mud patches to open up in the floor. As the party dodges around the mud, Faldrak uses his cane to cast Shatter at the stone, causing it to burst open. Between [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)'s fly spell, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)'s armor, and the [Raven](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/raven.md>) Whistle, the entire party is able to fly above the sticky mud on the floor, into the passageway.

The corridor splits, and the party turns left, with [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) scouting ahead. Soon ahead, he encounters a swirling wind, fragments of voices of all kinds, whispering for a new tale of freedom. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) tells them about the [Kenku](<../../../species/unusual-species/kenku/kenku.md>) who flew from one end of the Endless Isles to the other, and the winds quiet. Further down, mists envelope the corridor, dotted with dancing lights that entice you to join them, but [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) resists their call and steps forward. The mists clear, revealing a door, covered in magical runes.

The rest of the party, warned by [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) about what to expect, proceeds, telling their tales of freedom to the whispering winds, and resisting the lures of the dancing lights and mists. Except for [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), who is distracted, lured in, by the shimmering colors of the lights in the mist, colors he has never seen before. It takes some time, but finally he is released from the allure of the mists by [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), and the party regroups at the door. 

The door is not locked, and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) identifies the runes as providing magical protection against elemental incursions. We end as the party steps through the door, into an antechamber with three exits. Stepping from the far wall is a woman, maybe sixty or so, elegantly dressed in silk robes, with graying hair cut short, green eyes, and sharp and angular face marked by a scar or old burn running from her left eye to her jawline. She bows slightly, and speaks before you can say anything. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) recognizes the language as Drankorian, and translates:

*Greetings, visitors. I hope your journey was not too difficult. I am looking forward to consulting with you on your needs, but sadly I am indisposed at the moment. Until I return, my servant Claudio will tend to your needs. Please, be comfortable, and I will be with you shortly.*

As she finishes speaking, she gives a slight bow, and then vanishes.
