---
tags: [session-note]
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 34
realWorldDate: 2021-11-07
DR: 1748-06-30
DR_end: 1748-07-01
players: [Kenzo, Wellby, Delwath, Seeker]
title: Session 34 (DuFr)
---

The session starts as the party (excepting [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), who is taking [Garret Tealeaf](<../../../people/halflings/garret-tealeaf.md>) to [The Red Lily Inn](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/the-red-lily-inn.md>)) stands in the entrance to the [Lakan Monastery](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/lakan-monastery.md>), in front of the Lakan monk [Rishi](<../../../people/dunmari/rishi.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s friend and master. After introductions, the party learns from [Rishi](<../../../people/dunmari/rishi.md>) that the [Lakan Mystai](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/lakan-mystai.md>) have had omens and dreams, and many of the monks, including Speaker [Lara](<../../../people/dunmari/lara.md>), are currently traveling to hopefully learn more of these omens. For the past three weeks, many of the mystai have had premonitions that the cycle of history was out of sync with itself, that the branching paths of the past, once pruned and gone into history, are now renewed. Speaker [Lara](<../../../people/dunmari/lara.md>) had a dream of a watchtower to the east, one of the many guard towers built before the [Great War](<../../../events/1500s/great-war.md>) to protect the northern reaches of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), and left with many companions to visit this place a few days ago. 

While the party gets settled into the monastery, unloading the cart and finding secure places to store extra stuff, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) arrives, and the party decides to stay at the monastery for dinner. During dinner, they meet [Basu](<../../../people/dunmari/basu.md>), the eccentric artisan who runs the workshop of the Lakan monks and is an expert in crafting magic items with extradimensional spaces. He is grumpy and upset, because no one will pay attention to his problems, everyone being too concerned with the strange omens. He explains that, beneath this monastery, there is an old elven ruin with a weak point between the planes. He uses the energy that spills out in the construction of magic items, but if it is not harvested it is likely to accumulate in strange ways. No one has bothered to go down in weeks, given the distraction of the omens. They also are introduced to [Kassi](<../../../people/dunmari/kassi.md>), the head librarian, and [Johar](<../../../people/dunmari/johar.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s friend. There are a few other grumbles around the table, mostly about food and how it is scarce now, with the army camp and the refugees. 

After dinner, they discuss the [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>) [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>) with [Johar](<../../../people/dunmari/johar.md>); the clues and information he imparts are in [Seeker's Journal](https://docs.google.com/document/u/0/d/1S5M1wm5WHlFc2Zatn9YepfmNutGdjgSdo0oiTxPUWa4/edit). They also briefly discuss the Chardonian presence, which seems to [Johar](<../../../people/dunmari/johar.md>) to be just a small contingent of mages, and [Saka](<../../../people/dunmari/saka.md>), who [Johar](<../../../people/dunmari/johar.md>) has not heard of. 

The next morning, after breakfast, the party meets [Basu](<../../../people/dunmari/basu.md>) at his workshop and are led to the entrance to the [Elven Arborea Workshop](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/elven-arborea-workshop.md>) beneath the monastery, with three vials of prepared oil that must be placed near the leakage from [Arborea](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/primal-realms/arborea.md>) to charge, before they can be used to construct magic items with extradimensional spaces. 

Proceeding down the pitch black corridor, the party emerges in a room lit by the dim glow of bioluminescent fungi, with pillars decorated in Elvish script running down both sides of the cavern. What was once an entrance is blocked by a cave in at the far end. After dealing with some poisonous mold that launches a cloud of toxic spores, and an ooze that looks like wet stone, they read enough of the script on the pillars to learn one side of the room discusses [Arborea](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/primal-realms/arborea.md>), of nature untamed and wild, and the other [Pandemonium](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/primal-realms/pandemonium.md>), the plane of madness, said to be the home of the [Mad One](<../../../cosmology/gods/embodied-gods/mad-one.md>), the embodied avatar of [Jinnik](<../../../cosmology/gods/high-gods/jinnik.md>).

Continuing through the doors, the party comes to an open room with three passages, one straight ahead, one to the left, and one to the right. The right hand side of the chamber is filled with slightly pulsating red fungal-looking protrusions. As the party enters, the protrusions seem to be safe and friendly, until they attack [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), stealing memories from each of them. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) stays to fight while [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), still under its charm, continue, prompting [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) to try to use Suggestion on [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) to get him to leave well enough alone. 

Eventually [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) relents, and the party moves down the corridor to the weak point, when they are attacked by oozing slime molds that drop from the ceiling. The acidic slimes corrode their weapons as they attack, leaving [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s armor damaged and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s staff nearly destroyed. 

Finally, the party reaches the room where the energy of [Arborea](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/primal-realms/arborea.md>) is strongest, a point surrounded by pillars of stone. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) uses Clairvoyance to see a giant worm-like creature with antenna and many little legs (a giant velvet worm) curled up around the weak point, waiting in ambush. Approaching cautiously, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) manages to catch a glimpse of it through the cracks and reach into its mind, sensing its desperate hunger for a giant cricket. In a moment of brilliance, he tosses the [Obsidian Fly](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/obsidian-fly.md>) from [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s lair out, speaking the command word as he does. The velvet worm attacks the fly, encasing it in some glue-like substance and moving in to feed. While it is distracted, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) turns it into a regular earthworm, giving the party time to charge the vials and run before it shifts back. As the vials charge, the moisture and oppressive, heavy air of the place seem to lift, and the party returns to the surface, although without investigating the rest of the chambers. 

We end as the party emerges, successful, with the vials of extraplanar energy, into the morning sun in the [Lakan Monastery](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/lakan-monastery.md>). 