---
tags: [session-note]
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 37
realWorldDate: 2022-01-03
DR: 1748-07-02
DR_end: 1748-07-02
players: [Kenzo, Wellby, Delwath, Seeker]
title: Session 37 (DuFr)
---

Our session begins as the party opens the door at the end of the long tunnel, stepping into a room with four grotesque animal statues, all bizarre hybrids: a crab on a lion’s body, a goat head on a snake body, a snake head on a rearing wolf, and a bear-like creature with bat wings and axebeak legs. Although the initial strategy of total darkness fails as the statues can sense intruders in the dark, eventually they are defeated and the party begins to explore the lair.

Stepping through the secret door to a hallway, the party hears two guards, and a brief attempt at diplomacy is thwarted as the guards shift into werewolves as soon as they realize intruders are present. After a brief fight – during which a larger, stronger werewolf steps out from guard duty to join – the party searches the place. They discover a pair of prison cells: [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) is locked in one, and a [recently-deceased body](<../../../people/dunmari/hada.md>) is tossed in the other. After [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) is freed, the party learns he has been imprisoned for a month. The werewolves discovered him snooping around the old ruins of the Drankorian fort guarding a weak point in the world connecting to the plane of [Pandemonium](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/primal-realms/pandemonium.md>), and followed him back to the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>). They attacked and stole [the map](<../treasure/treasure-from-tokra/dunmari-map-of-pandemonium-ruins.md>), and kidnapped him to explain it. The map shows a path to approach a gash in the center of the ruined fort that leads underground, but the Fraternity has yet to figure out how to interpret this map, for each time they have tried to approach the ruins they have gotten lost, or confused, or dazed and enraged, and have not been able to progress. Why they desire to reach the ruins so much, [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) did not know. Further questioning revealed that [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) could not remember last night, but feared he had been transformed and killed and eaten [Hada](<../../../people/dunmari/hada.md>).

While [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) rests and talks to [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) scouts ahead with clairvoyance, learning that the presumed leader and several more guards are having lunch, and the guards will return soon. The party sets a trap, which includes [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) animating the wood and rope [Ladder](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/companions/ladder.md>) that leads into the subbasement. The next two guards are dispatched quickly, with the help of the animated [Ladder](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/companions/ladder.md>), and the party decides to assault the leader as soon as possible. 

The battle is joined and the leader is defeated, but not before summoning aid from four additional werewolves, leading to a dangerous fight during which [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) are bitten. The animated [Ladder](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/companions/ladder.md>) proves to be a valiant ally and despite being torn at by werewolves it fights hard and loyally. The leader tries to escape part way through the battle, leaving his minions to fight the party, but as he transforms into a aqueous form and slips through the wall, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) both strike him, the final blow being dealt from [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s runic inspiration exploding as [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) strikes. But eventually the werewolves are all dead, and the quiet settles over the building as the party takes a moment to gather their breath before beginning to search the place.