---
tags: [session-note]
title: Session 83 (DuFr)
---

# Session 83
*in which the party gathers followers and explores Kharsan

**In the real world:** November 29, 2023
**In Taelgar:** January 21st, 1749 - January 30th, 1749
## Summary

- Recruit several new followers: [Nuzkar](<../../../people/orcs/nuzkar.md>), the orc archivist seeking stories of other free orcs, and her twin sister [Aygul](<../../../people/orcs/aygul.md>), a brawler who can run training sessions; Kethra Silverspark, a dwarven smith, great-granddaugher or Nora Silverspark, and in awe of [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>); and [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>), novice of the Order of the Awakened Soul, who [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) asks [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) to train.
- Explore [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), and discover it mostly empty, but bring back a few treasures and spend some time cleansing the orc warren.
## Session Events
#### Timeline 

- (DR:: 1749-01-21): Rest in Uzgukhar
- (DR:: 1749-01-22): Rest in Uzgukhar
- (DR:: 1749-01-23): Rest in Uzgukhar. [Festival of the New Dawn](<../../../time/holidays-and-festivals/dunmari-festivals/festival-of-the-new-dawn.md>), marking first day of the Dunmari new year, the 192nd year of the Nayan Dynasty.
- (DR:: 1749-01-24): Meet [Nuzkar](<../../../people/orcs/nuzkar.md>) and [Aygul](<../../../people/orcs/aygul.md>), [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) sisters who join the crew of [Vindristjarna](<../../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>). Depart west.
- (DR:: 1749-01-25): Travel west across the [Garamjala](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/garamjala-plateau/garamjala-desert.md>), passing over [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>). Stop and explore.
- (DR:: 1749-01-26): Burn Grash's orc warren in a holy ritual, freeing souls of the plague dead who died on this spot. Turn west in the afternoon, departing [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>). Use The Mirror of the Past to look at the [broken Dunmari sword](<../mirror-visions/broken-dunmari-sword-vision.md>) (recharge:: mirror).
- (DR:: 1749-01-27): Travel west across the [Nashtkar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/nashtkar.md>).
- (DR:: 1749-01-28): Arrive at [Pava and Avaras' House](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/pava-and-avaras-house.md>). Meet Kethra, a [dwarven](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/dwarves/dwarves.md>) smith who has sought out [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) to be her mentor.
- (DR:: 1749-01-29): Stay with [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>), [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>), and [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>).
- (DR:: 1749-01-30): (morning) Discuss the situation in [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) with [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) and consider whether to intervene somehow. 
#### New Treasure from Kharsan
*(added to party treasure)*
- A pair of nice wooden spoons from the palace kitchens
- A wand, broken in half, once magical, but no longer
- A sword, the blade dulled and the pommel missing, but still magical (+1 sword, lets you cast heroism at 2nd level once per day)
- A nice leather saddle, cut into four pieces, once magical, but no longer
- A golden necklace with a holy symbol of Jeevali, dating to before the Great War, with two blue lapus lazuli gemstones representing Jeevali's tears 
- A large collection of damaged paper, recovered from a giant wasp nest in the main archives of [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>)
## Narrative

We begin in Uzgukhar, at the celebration of the victory in the Battle for Uzgukhar, after the unveiling of the statue of the hero [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) in the Plaza of Freedom. The party, and especially [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>), are hailed as heroes and saviors, and the mood of relief and hope is palpable, overlaid on the mourning for those lost. As the evening progresses, Loremaster [Azogar](<../../../people/orcs/azogar.md>) stands and in his frail but strong voice, speaks the full story of the [Cloak of Rainbows](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/cloak-of-rainbows.md>). 

*He tells of the first days of the People of the Rainbow, before there was a cloak. He tells of Ilios the Bright, who fell through the world when he was just an infant, not yet chained to [Thark](<../../../cosmology/gods/embodied-gods/thark.md>)'s will, and grew strong in the [fey](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/fey/fey.md>) realm of [Amberglow](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/amberglow.md>), under a sunset sky free of [Thark](<../../../cosmology/gods/embodied-gods/thark.md>)'s influence. Ilios, it is said, had a [fey](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/fey/fey.md>) energy that could not be contained. His eyes shone with moonlight, and his swords flashed silver. He began to raid across the foothills of the Sentinels, where small, disorganized groups of [orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), families and tribes hidden from the Drankorian patrols lived. Ilios stole the unchained babies from these tribes, and brought them to [Amberglow](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/amberglow.md>), where The People of the Rainbow grew in secret, protected by the Cloudspinner.* 

*And then Azagar speaks of the blackness that tore out the sun, the rift through which darkness leaked. The invasion of [Amberglow](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/amberglow.md>) by a far distant evil, something of no world. Ilios leapt through this blackness and severed
the cords that held this rift open, trapping himself to an unknown fate, but saving [Amberglow](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/amberglow.md>). In honor of his sacrifice, the Cloudspinner wove the [Cloak of Rainbows](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/cloak-of-rainbows.md>), each thread plucked from the immortal sunsets of [Amberglow](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/amberglow.md>), each thread grasping the essence of the Riving, the long pause, the splitting of the planes that created the [Feywild](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/feywild.md>), and wrapping that energy of pulling, separating into a cloak that cut the wearer from the divine.*

*[Azogar](<../../../people/orcs/azogar.md>)'s voice shifts, and he tells the story of the days in the world when the People of the Rainbow ventured forth, the quiet days, living lives of fields and flowers. In the story of their history, this was a remembered time of peace and happiness, but it could not last, for [Azogar](<../../../people/orcs/azogar.md>) turns to the tale of Cha'mutte, and Apollyon.* 

*Cha'mutte, it is said, traveled among the [orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), teaching them, preaching the fate he sought for all the people of the world: freedom from the divine, as the People of the Rainbow had found. But then betrayal, whether intentional or not, telling Apollyon of the dream, of the cloak. And then the war, and loss, and defeat as Apollyon turned on the [orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) and stole the cloak. That this because Apollyon's downfall, as Cha'mutte turned on his former ally, was no comfort, and [Azogar](<../../../people/orcs/azogar.md>) speaks bitter words as he tells how the cloak was lost and the People of the Rainbow scattered to hide in small groups where they could. 

*Until, after the Great War, the hero [Uzgash](<../../../people/orcs/uzgash.md>) found the cloak unexpectedly amongst the ruins of a Dunmari fort, and with the cloak proclaimed the safe haven of Xurkhaz, the land of the rising sun, a beacon of hope for the scattered People of the Rainbow.* 

For the next few days, the party rests in Uzgukhar, giving time for [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) to recover from his death, and taking a well-deserved breather after the battle. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) marks the Dunmari new year, the 192nd year of the Nayan Dynasty, on January 23rd, beginning to develop his own new traditions of meditation and worship. As they prepare to leave, to head west to reconnect with Pava and [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>) and perhaps recruit [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>) to join their crew, two orc women approach, [Nuzkar](<../../../people/orcs/nuzkar.md>) and [Aygul](<../../../people/orcs/aygul.md>), asking to join the crew. That day, January 24th, is an uneventful day of travel over the [Garamjala Desert](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/garamjala-plateau/garamjala-desert.md>). 

The next day, January 25th, the party receives another message from the Philosopher's Guild, concerning [Rai's hand](<../treasure/gifts-and-heirlooms/jade-piece-of-rai-s-hand.md>). The [message](<../letters-notes-and-tales/philosopher-s-information-concerning-rai-s-hand.md>) is strange. After discussing the message for a short time, the party finds themselves passing over the now-empty city of [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), once Grash's base, and decides to investigate. Faldrak sees this as a perfect opportunity to be allowed to fly [Vindristjarna](<../../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>), but the party is not quite ready to allow this, it seems.

[Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) seems relatively quiet. The party explores the palace, which was once Grash's headquarters, but now seems abandoned. The stables and great hall are ruined and cleared out; further searching uncovers a few restless haunted spirits of the plague dead in the old kitchens, which are easily dispatched. The remains of Grash's looting operation are also in the palace, along with a few treasures missed or destroyed. The most informative find is what looks like a planning room, with a map table and slate to draw on. It has been smashed, but from the available pieces and clues it seems pretty clear that [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) was planning on attacking [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) had he succeeded in getting the [Cloak of Rainbows](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/cloak-of-rainbows.md>). 

Exploring the rest of the city, the party casually slays a few more specters, and stumbles across the library, which is now a giant wasp nest, but the wasps are immediately destroyed by [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)'s sickening radiance spell. Although most of the paper has been shredded and turned to giant wasp nesting material, something might be salvageable, and it is packed for transport to [Vindristjarna](<../../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>) where perhaps [Nuzkar](<../../../people/orcs/nuzkar.md>) will see what she can decipher from it. The party also briefly explores the orc warren, which is empty, but the central building contains a series of gruesome murals depicting [Grash](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/grash.md>) is battle, slaughtering defenseless innocents as the avatar of [Thark](<../../../cosmology/gods/embodied-gods/thark.md>).   

The next morning, on January 26th, the party briefly returns to [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) with the orcs [Nuzkar](<../../../people/orcs/nuzkar.md>) and [Aygul](<../../../people/orcs/aygul.md>). [Nuzkar](<../../../people/orcs/nuzkar.md>) is deeply saddened by the orc warren, mourning the hundreds of orcs who must have been born and bound to [Thark](<../../../cosmology/gods/embodied-gods/thark.md>) here, and asks the party to burn it all. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>), as the orc warren burns, cleanse the spirits of the place as well, and see not just the orcs, but many others, especially the Dunmari who died in the Great War, trapped between the plague consuming [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) and a wall of fire summoned to prevent them from reaching the safety of the [Monastery of Bhishma](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/monastery-of-bhishma.md>) nearby. As the fire burns, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) feels [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/bhishma.md>)'s hand freeing the trapped, lost souls still stuck here, and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) briefly sees again the [river of souls](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/proximate-realms/land-of-the-dead.md>) where he spent an hour before being resurrected by [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>)'s magic. 

That afternoon, before departing [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), the party looks at the [broken Dunmari sword](<../mirror-visions/broken-dunmari-sword-vision.md>) in The Mirror of the Past. The next day the party travels west, and arrives at [Pava and Avaras' House](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/pava-and-avaras-house.md>) on January 28th. Here, they meet Kethra, a dwarven smith and great-grandaughter of Nora Silverspark, who has traveled far searching for [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>), hoping she'll be her mentor. They also speak at length with [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) and [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>), who are very happy to see everyone looking so well. [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) wishs to record [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)'s story, and is amazed at how [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) has started to reinterpret and expand the [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/bhishma.md>) traditions of storytelling in new ways, asking if [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) would take [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>) with him as an apprentice. The party spends the next day just catching up and resting at [Pava and Avaras' House](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/pava-and-avaras-house.md>).

As they prepare to leave on January 30th, with [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>) and Kethra joining the crew of [Vindristjarna](<../../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>), [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) updates them on the situation in [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), between [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) and [Nayan Karnas](<../../../people/dunmari/nayan-karnas.md>). We end as the party considers intervening. 
