---
excludeRooted: [Clee]
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 44 (DuFr)
---


**(Thursday, April 14th, 2022; in Taelgar, July 23rd)

We begin as the party faces off against Kadmos and his companions, with [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) charmed by Kadmos’ magic. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), enraged by Kadmos’ actions, rushes forward, avoiding [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s attempt to defuse the situation by turning him into a bunny rabbit, but running straight into Hektor’s halberd before he can launch a flurry of blows at Kadmos. Despite the slashing attack from Hektor, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s staff and fists land true and he nearly knocks Kadmos unconscious. Unfortunately, though, Hektor returns the favor, and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) is taken down by two quick blows with the halberd.

At this point, both [Antonia](<../../../people/chardonians/antonia.md>) and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) reach over to heal [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), and the violence calms for a moment as the encounter turns to conversation. [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) offers to show Kadmos the ring from [Drankor](<../../../history/drankorian-era/drankor.md>) he has, and is concerned about [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), as [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) is still under the influence of a charm. While the conversation continues, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) quietly reaches out to [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)’s essence and, after a few attempts, breaks the charm that has a hold on him. 

Over time as [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) press the conversation, it slowly becomes clear to everyone that something is up. Kadmos speculates that the [Scepter of Command](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/scepter-of-command.md>) may be exerting its influence, although no one lets on that the party is carrying the scepter. [Antonia](<../../../people/chardonians/antonia.md>) and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) attempt to make a deal for a map to [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s lair and the Ever Spinning Top, but it doesn’t quite connect. Eventually, the charm wears off, and the Chardonians retreat to a protected magical sphere created by Casian to rest, while the party leaves towards the wyvern’s lair.

On the road to the abandoned mining town of [Vandar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/vandar.md>), the party finds the ruins of the caravan that left down this road some days ago, carrying silk and paper – much of the silk is salvageable but the paper has been badly damaged by the rain. Upon arriving at the town of [Vandar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/vandar.md>), they find it largely ruined, with an obvious wyvern’s lair in the middle of the town square, and an oozing poisonous swamp with a sleeping ogre of some kind at the base of the hill. The temple is still partially intact, and that is where they set a camp.

That evening, after midnight, a group of the Chardonians attempts to stealthily steal some magic items from the party. However, they are detected, and a battle ensues. Marcella, the main thief, is quickly knocked unconscious and left for dead (“left for chance to decide her fate,” says [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)). Casian and Kadmos launch an attack, and the battle turns into a vicious exchange of magic. Casian kills all seven bandits with a fireball, and eventually [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) is worn down by a ghost summoned by Kadmos. 

As everyone approaches the end of their resources and health, and the battle threatens to leave one or more people on both sides dead, Marcella approaches from down the path, battered but miraculously and luckily recovered. She implores everyone to stop fighting, and Kadmos, badly wounded and nearing death, does not argue. While the conversation is bitter, the parties eventually agree that Kadmos will take the Ever Spinning Top, and Casian will pay a wereguild of 25 gold per bandit killed, a total of 175 gp, but Marcella’s weapons and ring of haste will be returned to her. 

While these negotiations are happening, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) and Marcella grab a private moment out of sight behind the Wall of Fire summoned by Casian. After a whispered conversation, Marcella turns disdainfully away and looks back at [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) with anger. But [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) has a thoughtful look on his face.