---
excludeRooted: [Clee]
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 20 (DuFr)
---

**(Saturday, Feb 27th, 2021; in Taelgar, afternoon of May 2nd to evening of May 5th)

We begin at the entrance to [Pava and Avaras' House](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/pava-and-avaras-house.md>) in the desert, with these two old monks greeting the party, and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) especially with recognition and a note of caution. They welcome the group into their home, and over cool mint tea tell the story of how they found [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), wandering, delirious in the desert, dying of thirst, perhaps 30 miles east of their home. He was muttering in a language they did not know, and looked wild, but not willing to leave him to die they brought him to their home. 

Over the course of the afternoon and early evening, while their student [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>) brings tea, [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) and [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>) tell their story, and listen to the party. They have lived here for nearly 30 years, and were wanderers for some time before that, and once the desert was, if not exactly safe, much more empty than it is now. They tell of [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/bhishma.md>), the founder and first Samraat ruler of the Dunmari, whose prayers brought [Jeevali](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/jeevali.md>) back to life (the event celebrated by the [Festival of Rebirth](<../../../time/holidays-and-festivals/dunmari-festivals/festival-of-rebirth.md>)). Their order is dedicated to her -- she is now deified, as a demigod in the pantheon of the Dunmari -- and has a mission to care for the lost dead and tell the stories of the people of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>). But they are cautious and not very forthcoming, and ask to hear the party’s story.

As the party is talking, [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>) appears with the reason for their suspicion: [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s old [elven armor](<../treasure/gifts-and-heirlooms/elven-shadow-breastplate.md>), now collecting shadows that grow and billow off of it. When [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) and [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>) found [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), they were worried the shadows were making him delirious, were cursing or contaminating him somehow. As [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) puts on the armor, the shadows fade, and a look of acceptance settles on his face. As the conversation continues, [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>) and [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>), and the party, come to be convinced the shadows are not evil, and the armor belongs with [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>). 

After this, the conversation continues, touching on [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) Dustmother (“misery incarnate” according to [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>)), and especially the history of the [Mystai of Bhisma](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>). For some time, even before [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>) and [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) were born, the order they eventually joined had become deeply committed to trying to cleanse the land, the [desolation of Cha’mutte](<../../../gazetteer/istaros-watershed/plaguelands.md>), of some evil preventing it from healing. About 30 years ago, one of their leaders supposedly devised a secret way to remove this curse, and it was attempted. But it didn’t work, and many of the strongest in their order died, and much power and knowledge was lost, including the original [Monastery of Bhishma](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/monastery-of-bhishma.md>) near [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>). As it was inside the cursed area of plague nightmares around [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) it was never exactly safe to approach, and after the failure 30 years ago few were left with the power to dare it.

Now, in the past year or so, they speak of how things have changed, gotten much more dangerous. [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) who used to live peacefully to the east are now fighting each other in some kind of civil war; a malevolent presence now seems to direct the evil memories that linger around [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>); and an adventuring party passed east into the desert recently, chasing rumors of a lost library of [Drankor](<../../../history/drankorian-era/drankor.md>) to the south. As the party discussed [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s past and powers, [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>) and [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) go to bustle about in the kitchen cooking dinner. 

The next day, they spend the morning training with [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>), who shows [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) a trick to manipulate his opponents’ ki and stun them. The party then sets out in the afternoon for [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s camp, about a day’s join to the northeast. Passing through the canyonlands and rough terrain it is obvious how much better [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) has become at picking a path through the desert, and the party makes steady progress into the evening. 

The next day, after avoiding a giant scorpion lying in wait to ambush some prey, and after traveling most of the day, the party stops as they approach [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s camp and hear sounds of a battle ahead. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) looks ahead using one of his new spells, and sees [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) fighting a large band of [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), maybe 20 or more. The party leaps into action, and finds themselves facing off against the leader of the band and several spellcasters, including one who causes some serious damage with a giant blast of fire. But the tide of battle eventually turns against the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), and the session ends with the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) dead, except for one who is unconscious in the grasp of a large stone hand summoned by [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>). 
