---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 30 (DuFr)
---

**(Friday, Sept 10th, 2021; in Taelgar, June 1st to June 4th)

Our session begins at dawn, as the party leaves [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) in search of [Agata's lair](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/agata-s-lair.md>). Armed with rumors from [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) that the lair was only approachable from the north, but marked by a path lined with dead trees, the party headed south towards [Bas Udda](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/bas-udda.md>). Here, they spent the night and cached some supplies, before turning south the next morning.

Scouting by [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) identified the line of trees. [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) sent his shadow to investigate, which did not return, but [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) caught the sounds of battle on the wind. Deciding that there must be a better way to approach, and pooling their resources, the party managed to fly across the line of trees, using a boulder animated by [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s magic, plus [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s fly spell, and [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>)’s ability to turn into a small animal to ride along. But not before attempting to use [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s [Obsidian Fly](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/obsidian-fly.md>), which turned out to attack them, and apparently was enchanted somehow by [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) to attack anyone besides her that summoned it. After a brief melee, during which the fly is whacked by [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and grappled by [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s earthen hand, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) succeeds in using the fly’s command word to turn it back into an obsidian sculpture.

Arriving at [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s hut, the party saw a field with a wooden scarecrow, the house itself, and a low hill covered on top with dense, dark scrub. The scarecrow told them to leave, that [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) was not in but would be back soon and they could speak to her then. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), noticing its eyes were real, not made of wood, points this out and the party realizes this may be one of the trapped puppets of [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>). After some conversation [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) managed to dispel the enchantment, and the scarecrow shifted into the form of [Garret Tealeaf](<../../../people/halflings/garret-tealeaf.md>), an older halfling man. He is amazed and stunned.

The party then approaches the house. One by one, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), and then [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) vanish into thin air as they approach the open door. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) are left to puzzle what is going on. Eventually, they figure that it has something to do with sight, and so [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) enters the house blindfolded. After bumbling around a bit, he knocks over a mirror, which luckily falls with its reflective side down. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) uses his [Goggles of Object Reading](<../treasure/treasure-from-stormcaller-tower/goggles-of-object-reading.md>) to study the mirror, learning it is a [Mirror of Soul Trapping](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/mirror-of-soul-trapping.md>), and the prisoners in it can be freed by speaking a command word and then the number of a cell. 

After [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>), and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) are freed from the mirror, the party continues to investigate [Agata's lair](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/agata-s-lair.md>), finding a large number of magic items and treasure. In the storeroom are several sacks of flour filled with coins and silver, and in the bedroom is a fleshy humanoid creature with vacant eyes from which a faint buzzing can be heard.

The party decides to retreat for the evening with the loot before returning to destroy the house in the morning with more resources. Taking all the magic and valuable treasure they could find, as well as the nice wooden table and chair in the kitchen they suspect are actually the last two trapped people, they fly back using [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s animated boulder and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s magic. 

As the session ends, the party is setting up camp in a small canyon about 1 ½ miles north of [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s lair. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) attempts to break the enchantment on both the chair and the table, succeeding only on one, the table, which turns into an [old Dunmari man](<../../../people/dunmari/shandar.md>), catatonic and rocking back and forth in confusion and fear.