---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 17 (DuFr)
---


**(Friday, Jan 22nd, 2021; in Taelgar, April 16th through April 24th)**

Bone tired from a night of stumbling through the mists, fog, rain, and thunder of [Hralgar](<../../../people/giants/hralgar.md>)’s storm, we open on the party, resting over a late breakfast, [telling stories of their childhood](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6k6EcUUBuQ). [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), about his brother who vanished after an accident with a strange divination machine of his invention; [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), about cooking for his elders as rumors of darkness spread in the world outside; [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), about the hard life of poor street kids growing up in [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>); and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), about being at home on the road and the stories his great-grandfather told. As these stories finish, the conversation turns to the events of the past month, as the party starts to puzzle over the mysteries they have experienced, and speculate on answers. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) records much of the conversation in his journal, and a few answers perhaps emerge.

Turning south to [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), an exhausted party decides to get a few hours walking in before breaking to rest. This first leg of the trip is briefly interrupted by an emaciated band of gnolls, many of whom seem to have begun consuming themselves out of lack of suitable prey. They are quickly dispatched, as the party holds their ground and rains arrows and magic down on the gnolls, charging across the plains at them.

The next seven days are relatively uneventful, as the party journeys south across the plains. The land gradually dries, turning from grassland to scrub to rocky desert with only scattered vegetation over the course of the journey, while [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) maps ley lines and fiddles with the lenses [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) found in [Stormcaller Tower](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/stormcaller-tower.md>), and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) trains his pet axe beak. Camped outside of [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), the party spends some time contemplating the situation. Realizing the mirror of [Eudomes](<../../../people/historical-figures/eudomes.md>) can be used to look into the past, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) holds up the [Ivory Scroll Cap](<../treasure/treasure-from-raven-s-hold/ivory-scroll-cap.md>) they found to the [mirror](<../treasure/treasure-from-stormcaller-tower/the-mirror-of-the-past.md>) and [asks to see its past](<../mirror-visions/ivory-scroll-cap-vision.md>), when it was created and when it was used.

The next day, the party arrives at [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) by mid-afternoon. From a distance, it is clear that the town has suffered greatly. [Ikram’s](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/ikrams.md>) the popular caravanserai and site of many early meetings, is mostly destroyed and burned, as are the small shops nearby, including [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s apartment. The shade trees around the oasis square have been chopped down and some burned, and many houses are smashed and now open to the elements. As the party approaches, the centaur [Tharandros](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/tharandros.md>) and the Dunmari warrior [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) ride up, and greet them with pleasure. [Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>) and [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) are waiting in the outbuildings of the Temple, with news to share and receive.

[Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) is surprised and happy to see the party -- the [Centaurs](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/centaurs/centaurs.md>) have not informed him that it was [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) who convinced them to go south. [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) looks exhausted and worn out, and gives a brief update on what has happened. Many days ago, a large band of gnolls attacked, burned the town, and lay siege to the Temple. The siege was broken by the arrival of the [Centaurs](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/centaurs/centaurs.md>) a little more than a week ago, who crushed the gnoll lines, albeit not without casualties, and freed the [Shakun Mystai](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/shakun-mystai.md>) sheltering in the temple. Some days later, [Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>) returned, as did [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) with some of his troops from [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>). 

[Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>) then reports on her scouting journey into the blasted plains. They passed by [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), which seemed haunted but also deserted, at least by day, and full of nightmares of a choking red mist at night. South of [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), they encountered an emaciated gnoll band, about half of which seemed more undead than alive, heading south and west into the [Garamjala Desert](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/garamjala-plateau/garamjala-desert.md>). They did not follow them far into the desert, as they were not adequately supplied for such a journey, but they noted that a raven also seemed to be following the gnolls. 

[Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>) also reported two other odd findings. First, on the edge of the desert, a [stone house](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/pava-and-avaras-house.md>), clean and neat, but empty except for the usual trappings of a house, a small chest, chickens and goats and feed for them, and a seemingly magical well. Second, they saw an [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) scouting party, which struck them as odd as [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) are not usually very organized and discrete, preferring a straightforward charge. 

Finally, before the party begins to report on the events of the north, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) asks about [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) Dustmother. Neither [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) or [Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>) has heard that name, but [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) mentions the [Old Woman of the Dusts](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>), an old woman who lives in the desert, and who has some kind of magic. But not a pleasant kind of magic, rather it is the sort of magic that comes at a price, often a large one, and that you only turn to when you are desperate and willing to give up everything. 

The session ends with [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) finishing this story, and everyone wondering if this is indeed [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) Dustmother.

