---
excludeRooted: [Clee]
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 19 (DuFr)
---

**(Saturday, Feb 13th, 2021; in Taelgar, afternoon of April 24th to afternoon of May 2nd)**

Having decided to leave [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) for the deserts and the blasted plain to the east, traveling with [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) and his band, the party spends a few days taking care of business in [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>). You find a place to store the loot you are not planning on taking into the desert; [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) offers space in the outbuildings of the [Temple of Shakun](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/temple-of-shakun.md>), where it will hopefully remain safe. Each time you see him he seems as if he is wrestling with a decision, but with the preparations for the expedition you don’t have time to speak in more depth with him.

You speak with [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>), and make a plan to head south to [Bas Udda](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/bas-udda.md>) and then east to a spot he knows that can provide shelter and water, to set up a base camp for further scouting. [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) believes as long as there are not more than 100 [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), he and his band, with your aid, can defeat them; if there are more, flight will be the only option. 

The morning of April 27th, just before you depart [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) [slips off for a bit](<../mirror-visions/kenzo-s-jade-vision.md>), as does [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), followed by [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>). Then, you set out with [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s troop into the desert. The journey is uneventful for two days, as you get into a rhythm of traveling in the morning, pausing for a few hours in the heat of the day, and then traveling until past dark. [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s troop is an efficient group, and moves quickly.

The morning of the third day, you arrive in [Bas Udda](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/bas-udda.md>) some time before noon, intending to spend the hot part of the day resting here, and investigating the situation. The town is in ruins -- few buildings are standing, and the wreckage is far worse than the ruins of [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>). There are also signs of many dead: there are bodies laid out, as if to be buried or burned, with some care, and seemingly freshly prepared. This has attracted the attention of some giant vultures, who move in to attempt to drive off the party and [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s band. While one manages to snatch [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), they are killed and driven off by the quick action of the party and [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>). 

Upon ending the vulture threat, the party enters the Temple, which appears to have been recently cleaned and is one of the more intact buildings in the town. Here, they find a young man cowering from the vultures, among what appear to be hundreds of small idols to the gods, collected from the dead. They learn that this is [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>), a young Dunmari monk, part of an order that has as its mission putting to rest the lost souls of the blasted plains. He is here to help send the souls of the unburied dead into the next world, so they can be at peace. He is particularly a devotee of [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/bhishma.md>), the human founder of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), its first ruler and queen, who has since seemed to achieve some divine powers. He tells you that [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/bhishma.md>) watches over the souls of all her people, and her [Mystery cult](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/order-of-the-awakened-soul.md>) is devoted to helping with this mission. He is training with two monks who live on the edge of the desert, in a small stone house. Upon seeing [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), he is taken aback, as his masters [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) and [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>) found an [Elves](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/elves/elves.md>) in the [blasted plain](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/nashtkar.md>) six months back. 

Taking this as a sign, the party decides to enlist the aid of [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s band in helping [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>) finish his work in [Bas Udda](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/bas-udda.md>), and then part company with [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) to travel to the stone house of [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) and [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>). It takes the rest of the day and the first part of the morning to find, bless and lay to rest the remaining bodies of the dead Dunmari, but with [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)’s warriors helping dig through the ruins it goes quickly. [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) and his band give [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) careful directions to where they intend to set a base camp, and then depart, while the party leaves with [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>) towards the [stone house](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/pava-and-avaras-house.md>). 

The party leaves [Bas Udda](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/bas-udda.md>) the afternoon of April 30th, and that afternoon and the next day are uneventful. On the next day, May 2nd, they expect to arrive in the afternoon. While traveling down a canyon to a shaded spring that [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>) knows, hoping to spend the noon hours resting in the shade, they notice something is not right. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) goes ahead to scout, and finds three ogres sleeping in the sun, but manages to accidentally wake one. As he begins to negotiate, the orge instead decides that a halfling would be a good snack, and begins to chase [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) back to the party. In the ensuing battle, the ogres are dispatched with only some minor difficulty. 

The session ends with the party arriving at the [stone house](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/pava-and-avaras-house.md>), [Amil](<../../../people/dunmari/amil.md>) running ahead to tell his masters who is here, and [Pava](<../../../people/dunmari/pava.md>) and [Avaras](<../../../people/dunmari/avaras.md>) standing outside to greet them.