---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 33 (DuFr)
---

**(Sunday, Oct 24th, 2021; in Taelgar, June 20th to June 30th)

The session starts as the party leaves [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), heading west for [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), traveling with [Garret Tealeaf](<../../../people/halflings/garret-tealeaf.md>), a horse-drawn cart laden with food and water and a false bottom hiding their magical mirrors, plus their horses and gear. The first day passes uneventfully along the open terrain, heading to connect with the ancient Drankorian trade road that runs east and west across northern [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>). There is light traffic passing through the desert, everybody eager to return to their normal lives. By the evening of the second day of travel, [The Mirror of the Past](<../treasure/treasure-from-stormcaller-tower/the-mirror-of-the-past.md>) had recharged enough to be used, and the party used it to look at the [Floating Disc Coin](<../treasure/treasure-from-dunmari-ruins/floating-disc-coin.md>) found near the petrified form of [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>) in the fort east of [Gomat](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/gomat.md>), seeing a [vision of its history](<../mirror-visions/floating-disc-coin-vision.md>).

As he watches this scene unfold, [Garret Tealeaf](<../../../people/halflings/garret-tealeaf.md>) is suspicious, afraid of the magic you have taken from the lairs of powerful creatures, worried that perhaps the owner of this mirror is watching you, somehow. 

The third day of travel is interrupted when [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) hears a voice in his mind. It turns out to be a Fey creature, [Typhina](<../../../people/fey/typhina.md>), who is currently trapped in the [Ring of the Warded Mind](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/ring-of-the-warded-mind.md>) [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) obtained from [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>). She tells [her story to Seeker telepathically](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/ring-of-the-warded-mind.md#typhinas-story>).

On the fifth day of travel, the party passes a ruined aqueduct in the distance, and cannot resist the temptation to investigate. A Dunmari family of goat herders is camped here, and looks at the party strangely as they begin to climb over the aqueduct, exploring it. Eventually, they discover that a faint enchantment from Drankorian days still remains on this stonework, amplifying water that passes through the channel. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) constructs an earthen berm for easy access, so the Dunmari can use this as a small oasis in the desert, and the party spends the evening here, enjoying the food and company of the Dunmari herders. 

On the ninth day of travel, a few days out from [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), the mirror has recharged again. After some discussion, the party decides to carefully, using mage hand, show the four dried scorpions from [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s belt pouch to the mirror. As they do, they can see, [reflected in the mirror](<../mirror-visions/dried-scorpion-vision.md>), a giant scorpion, wiggling and struggling against some force that is holding it still, struggling to free itself. As [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) spots the dried scorpion begin to wiggle in response, he takes careful aim and pierces the scorpion with an arrow that obliterates it. Realizing these are trapped items that grow into giant scorpions when handled or subjected to strong magic, the party destroys the other three quickly and thoroughly. 

On the eleventh day after leaving [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), the party arrives at the outskirts of [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>). After riding across the great bridge over the [Hara](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/rivers/hara-watershed/hara.md>) river, and paying the toll to the Dunmari guards, the party decides their first stop will be the [Lakan Monastery](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/lakan-monastery.md>). [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) has sent word ahead he is returning, and is expected. The session ends as [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) escorts Garrett across town to [The Red Lily Inn](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/the-red-lily-inn.md>), a halfling inn near the western gate run by [Wes Strongbones](<../../../people/halflings/wes-strongbones.md>) and his teenage boys [Tye Strongbones](<../../../people/halflings/tye-strongbones.md>) and [Cade Strongbones](<../../../people/halflings/cade-strongbones.md>), and the remainder of the party arrives at the monastery and is greeted by [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>)’s old master, [Rishi](<../../../people/dunmari/rishi.md>).