---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 26 (DuFr)
---

**(Tuesday, June 1st, 2021; in Taelgar, May 23rd to May 24th)

We begin as [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) approach [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) from the south road as the sun begins to sink in the sky, after five days of travel across the desert from [Pava and Avaras' House](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/pava-and-avaras-house.md>) to the east. As they approach [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), a patrol of [Centaurs](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/centaurs/centaurs.md>) and Dunmari intercept them, glad to see the party return safe from the desert. [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) would urgently like to speak with them, and so the party follows into [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>). 

The situation in [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) is grim. There have been several more attacks, from undead skeletal gnolls, from wild beasts, from ankhegs, and more [Centaurs](<../../../species/children-of-the-divine/centaurs/centaurs.md>) and Dunmari have died. What’s more, the messenger send to the Samraat court in Nayanhar has finally returned with the news that the ruler of Dunmari, the Samraat [Nayan Karnas](<../../../people/dunmari/nayan-karnas.md>), will not commit imperial troops to defend [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), and will only commit to a defense of the river [Hara](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/rivers/hara-watershed/hara.md>), near the city of [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>). What’s more, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) notes that the mesa around the [Temple of Shakun](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/temple-of-shakun.md>) seems to be crumbling. 

The party speaks with [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>), who seems to have aged with worry and exhaustion. He admits he has failed, he has made a grave mistake, and there is much he did not tell the party earlier, out of worry and doubt over the possible consequences of revealing the secrets of his order. He tells [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) of the chamber below the mesa where the [Mystai of Shakun](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/shakun-mystai.md>) grow stone and rock to make their magical powders and ointments, and apologizes to [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) for tricking him into seeing a vision that he thought was from [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) but was in fact [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>)’s manipulation with his [staff](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/dreamweaver-staff.md>). But, before he tells the full story of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>)’s Heart, he tells them that a [stoneborn traveler](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) is in town, who has come asking questions about the failure of the protections on the Dunmari border, and he would tell the story once to all of them. [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) meet [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>), the stoneborn from a small village in the mountains to the north. After introductions and some brief conversation, the party hears the story of [Heart of Shakun](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/heart-of-shakun.md>) from [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>). 

[Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) tells them of a woman, [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>), in whom the spirit of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) seems to live embodied in the mortal world, who has something of the power of the divine in her. She is the Supreme Oracle of the [Shakun Mystai](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/shakun-mystai.md>), a person outside the hierarchy of the order, a prophet acknowledged to have a direct connection to the goddess [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>). Several years ago, she had a daughter late in life, [Jumi](<../../../people/dunmari/jumi.md>), in whom the blessing of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) seemed to be very strong, for she could make colors run in the desert sand before she could talk. Some months ago, her daughter took ill, and no magic could cure her. [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>) was convinced that [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) was speaking to her in her dreams, and telling her to take her daughter and [Heart of Shakun](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/heart-of-shakun.md>) south of the [Red Mesa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/red-mesa.md>), to a place called [Shakun’s Wellspring](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/shakuns-wellspring.md>), a sacred grove. Here, [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>)’s dreams said, the power of the Heart could heal her daughter. She left with some trusted companions in early February, and no one has heard from her since, despite several efforts of the mystai to send rescue. [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) also tells them that the absence of [Heart of Shakun](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/heart-of-shakun.md>) from its place in the temple is responsible for the failure of the protections on the borders of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), but he literally is unable to speak about how it works, and says he has to show them instead. 

After some discussion in which the party is understandably annoyed that [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) was not more forthcoming earlier, he admits his only excuse is that this knowledge has been secret for so long, he was genuinely unsure what would happen if he told outsiders -- the gods work in mysterious ways after all. He now no longer trusts his judgment, however, and is willing to consider something like telling [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) and marching a small army south to try to rescue [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>) and her daughter (if they are alive), or at least recover the Heart. And he does agree to at least tell [Tharandros](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/tharandros.md>) about the Heart. But he remains nervous that revealing this secret widely will have unexpected consequences, and at [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s suggestion says he will try to search in dreams to find out whether the secret has already been revealed. The party agrees to return the following evening for a ceremony to understand the nature of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>)’s Heart and its magic.

At this the party leaves to set up camp and tend to business, including showing the broken glassware from [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) to the mirror, seeing [a vision of its history](<../mirror-visions/kharsan-broken-glassware-vision.md>). 

During their day in town, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) speaks with [Tharandros](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/tharandros.md>) and confirms that [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) told him of the Heart, and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) negotiates barding for [Baxter](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/companions/baxter.md>) in exchange for a nicely made map of the area they’ve traveled in, although it will take three days to be ready. 

After that, the party returns to the temple in the evening, where [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) tells them that the only way to show them the magic of the [Heart of Shakun](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/heart-of-shakun.md>) is to go through the initiation ceremony into the Mystai, although without the Heart this is not the full initiation and they will not be [Shakun Mystai](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/shakun-mystai.md>) or bound to the order afterward. He also tells them that part of the magic ties the people together via their shared experiences and memories of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), but since none of the party grew up here he is not sure what will happen. 

He leads the party through the temple to a chamber underneath the mesa, lit by torches that burn with blue fire. A pool of water sits in the middle of the cavern, which bursts into blue flame as a mystai plunges a torch into it. The party are given sips of some thick potion, and then pushed underwater, where they find that breathing is no issue and the fire does not burn as their eyes close. 

##### The Initiation Ritual of the [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) Mystai

Until your eyes snap open in darkness, and your vision begins to adjust. Everything is gray and shadowed as if you're watching the world through a thin dark curtain like a veil, preventing you from seeing clearly. You seem to be floating above a tumbled scrub land of rock and grass and low hills. You can sense your companions with you, but you can't see them, you can just feel their presence next to you.

The ground is moving belief beneath you, but you don't feel a sense of movement -- it's as if you are stationary and the ground is scrolling below you. You come to a road cutting through the scrub, and you float along as the ground picks up speed beneath you, the land moving quicker now, a blur almost. You begin to drift higher and higher, and you can see across the entirety of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) below you, as if you're floating far up in the sky. You can see a river glittering in the distance, tall mountains rising out of the planes to the north, open fields below, tall grass blowing in the wind, the rain falling, summer thunderstorms washing the earth clean and as you begin to fall back towards the earth, the image changes.

You see the faint flicker of a vast forest of unimaginable trees superimposed on the land, stretching as far as you can see, reaching the mountains -- everything still in shadow, still as through a veil -- but every now and then pierced by lights. You can hear the sound of singing in a strange language.

Until time pauses. And with a flash, ash and fire spreads across the land and everything is red with the flame, you see nothing but ash and dead trees across the land. You see, burning, fighting the smell of blood and death. Until the image fades again, and you drift closer, looking at a huge city that's spreading out below you, growing, stretching, covering all the land. This impossible city then melts and begins to ooze across the land, like red blood, until a light cuts across it, and water is falling, washing it clean. 

As the land is cleansed, you're disoriented for a moment, because you are the rain, flowing down the river into an ocean somehow both yourselves, but also, part of the water. It is almost as if your individual identity is gone and you're catching impressions from the water around you that both are yours and not yours: the pungent smell of blood and war, the taste of mushroom and lambs stew, the acid ashy taste of some bitter polluted smoke in the air, the sound of gulls, the smell of salt in the air, the clean crisp cold taste of water from a high mountain stream.

Until just as suddenly you evaporate into the sky, and are a cloud drifting over the land, growing as you rise in the hot air over the dry planes below, until you burst. Still everything is faint and seen through a veil but now it feels more like a fine mist than a shadow. As you are falling the earth rises up to meet you, eager for the life you bring, and as you soak into the ground everything is dark and earthy around you.

And then suddenly you feel like you're being stretched in five different directions almost like you're being pulled apart until you burst forth images flashing. You see yourself turning the corner on a narrow track high in the mountains, watching small trails of smoke rising in the distance from the cook fires of the small village, feeling the anticipation of hearing again the sounds of hammers against stone, the soft patter of young feet running over the earth, the background murmur of life. As you walk forward approaching the village you take a step and are falling through the mountains, through the stone, emerging on an enormous white fur rug by a fireplace looking up at a vaulted ceiling covered and complex patterns of tile. You turn in anticipation, as you hear the distant rushing of water growing louder, and then watch as a waterfall starts cascading down the facade of the building. As you are overwhelmed by the joy of this sight you notice the water is driving a number of small stone and class automata, which start to move. You’re drawn into them, pulling closer and closer as they begin to come to life, drawn into one of them in particular, a glowing crystal lantern. As your vision pulls out, and you can see now that this lantern is sitting on a beautiful and intricately carved mantle. It seems ancient and as your gaze falls upon it, you feel a sense of loss and melancholy, as you stare at the light. As you focus on the light it becomes the sun setting behind you, as you are on a ship at sea, cutting through green waters watching the waves, the wind in the sails as you leave port. As you watch the sun set behind you on the shore, you feel a sense of happiness and contentment at setting off for somewhere new. As the sun sets, the image fades into the night sky full of stars, clear and bright. A sense of calm washes over you as for a moment you feel a sense of profound peace and everything slows.

And pauses.

Your vision clears for a moment, as you see a great empty cavern, vast but dark, the only light coming coming from shimmering crystals surrounding seven carven thrones of stone, an intricate design etched on the rocks below, a strange metal taste in your mouth almost like placing your tongue against the vein of some metal in an ancient rock face.

As you rushed towards the floor, crashing through it, for the briefest of brief of moments you can see everything. You can see the world below you, lines of energy twisting across it, points of thought superimposed, too complex to really understand. But for a moment you feel as if everything is clear, and you can see people, you can see the [Shakun Mystai](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/shakun-mystai.md>), and from each one a light stretches into a web, and that web stretches together into a complex interweave of energy that reaches out across Dunnar. The web stretches for the border, and piles up, almost making a soft net. But as you watch this web, you can see that there are holes in it, you can see that it's tearing, it's beginning to pull apart.

As you follow these strands, you can see that this energy is coming both from here, from [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) and from elsewhere, beyond this plane. As you watch this web of power, shifting and shimmering with the thoughts of the people whose dedication to [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) and, more importantly, to each other, supports it, you can see that at the center, where there should be energy, where there should be light, where there should be life, where there should be the pulsing of divine power and divine energy through this web, there is just emptiness. There's just nothing -- it's not darkness so much as just the absence of energy, the absence of sustenance. And that that emptiness is spreading through the web, the knots are beginning to crumble and flicker and fail and tear. You can see cracks stretching across the land. 

Then the clarity you had is gone, and you're now standing on the top of the [Red Mesa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/red-mesa.md>). It’s evening and everything is again distorted by grey, the ground itself unsteady under your feet. The mesa cracks open beneath you, the rock shifting as if you are traversing an unstable glacier and not solid ground, solid rock. You can feel now, here, the absence of something, you can feel this is where the heart should be, this is where the blood flows, this is where the energy that powers that web of people, that web of thought, that web of souls that protects [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), is ripped loose. 

As you watch the scene grows darker, you have the feeling that something is reaching for you, a vague impression of a woman who is maybe also a mesa, and a whisper breath as darkness grows: “Please. Will you help me.” 


As the initiation ritual ends, the party snaps awake to shouts in the darkness, screams, as through a veil of blue flames shadowy forms are detaching from the wall to attack. The shadows from [Kharsan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) have tracked the party, and taken this moment of vulnerability to launch and attack. Despite the difficulties of being caught without gear, the party fights off the shadows, although not before two mystai are killed, drained of energy and turned to withered husks by the shadow creatures. 

We end as the party regroups, helping [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) tend to the bodies of the dead and preparing for a funeral and plans in the morning. 