---
excludeRooted: [Clee]
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 31 (DuFr)
---


**(Friday, Sept 24th, 2021; in Taelgar, June 4th to June 8th)

Our session begins at dusk, as the party establishes camp in a small canyon about 1 ½ miles north of [Agata's lair](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/agata-s-lair.md>). After an evening discussing the freed prisoners, the mirror, and what to do with [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s loot and lair, the party drifts off to rest, with [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) on watch. [Garret Tealeaf](<../../../people/halflings/garret-tealeaf.md>), the elderly halfling, wanders over to talk for a bit, reiterating his fear of the magic from [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s house, and starting to open up about his experiences as [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s servant, especially the terrible screams he would hear from the hut at times, when a band of [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) attacks by surprise.

The [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), joined by a wereraven and some jackalweres, initially seem intent on stealing the treasure, going for high value, easy to carry items. When the party fights back, hard, they begin to retreat, and are largely foiled. Two, however, do flee: a single jackalwere, and one of the stealthy [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) shadows, the [orc](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) shadow stealing and later killing a horse. 

With the threat driven off, the party goes back to sleep, waking some hours past sunrise. In the morning, the party searches for tracks, and realizes that the [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) came from [Agata's lair](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/agata-s-lair.md>), perhaps from the mysterious shadowy hill that was never investigated. The idea that [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), perhaps lots of [Orcs](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), may be waiting for them makes the idea of returning to the lair less appealing. The party decides to return to [Bas Udda](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/bas-udda.md>), take some time to hide the heavy loot, and then return to [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) to decide what to do.

While food is short, the journey is not difficult, interrupted only by a moment of doubt when [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) sense, with the crossing of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>)’s protection, that some of what they bring is evil, and feel a moment of questioning, whether they are sure they know what they are doing will not bring harm to [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>). At this, the party debates whether to destroy some items, and starts by burning the [Thorn Seed Bag](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/thorn-seed-bag.md>) that wither the ground they are planted in.

The party arrives at the outskirts of [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) a few days later, not wanting to bring whatever may be trapped in the [Mirror of Soul Trapping](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/mirror-of-soul-trapping.md>) into [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>). After fetching [The Mirror of the Past](<../treasure/treasure-from-stormcaller-tower/the-mirror-of-the-past.md>) and telling [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>) about the trip to [Agata's lair](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/agata-s-lair.md>), the party shows the [Mirror of Soul Trapping](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/mirror-of-soul-trapping.md>) to [The Mirror of the Past](<../treasure/treasure-from-stormcaller-tower/the-mirror-of-the-past.md>), seeing [a vision of its history](<../mirror-visions/mirror-of-soul-trapping-vision.md>). 

As the scene fades, while [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) puzzle over the architecture of the castle in the last scene, eventually placing it as pre-[Great War](<../../../events/1500s/great-war.md>) hobgoblin architecture from the eastern side of the mountains, [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>) stands by, shocked. She tells the party that the first Dunmari woman they saw is Nayan [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>), the woman who should be Samraat of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>). [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) was supposed to be the heir to the throne, but she vanished 8 years ago, leading her brother to take the throne in her place. 

The party quickly frees her quickly after that. She does not know [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>), remembering only a giant spiked club (perhaps [Samerki](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/samerki.md>)’s weapon, which you recall was also a giant spiked club) and then a faint memory of being half-awake in a smoky room, staring at her bloody head in a mirror before she vanished into a strange blank foggy mist. 

During the brief conversation that follows, the party recalls some of the political rumors they have heard, that [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) was seen as a unifying force, someone who could unite the eastern and western factions into Greater [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>). When she vanished, her brother [Nayan Karnas](<../../../people/dunmari/nayan-karnas.md>) turned to the west and abandoned the eastern Dunmari, recently refusing to sent troops to help with the gnolls, for example. [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) insists that the other two Dunmari ([Isha](<../../../people/dunmari/isha.md>) and [Selkan](<../../../people/dunmari/selkan.md>)) are freed, and after seeing the tortures they have suffered gives the party a writ of travel (not so useful at the moment) and thanks them for their work. 

The session ends as [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) tells them to keep her reappearance quiet until the [Feast of Bhishma](<../../../time/holidays-and-festivals/dunmari-festivals/feast-of-bhishma.md>), [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>) takes the broken Dunmari mystai freed from the mirror back to the temple, and the party turns to [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), to take care of loose ends and other business until the [Feast of Bhishma](<../../../time/holidays-and-festivals/dunmari-festivals/feast-of-bhishma.md>) in 9 days time. 