---
tags: [session-note]
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 27
realWorldDate: 2021-07-07
DR: 1748-05-24
DR_end: 1748-05-27
players: [Kenzo, Wellby, Delwath, Seeker, Drikod]
title: Session 27 (DuFr)
---

We begin in the evening, as the sun has set and the [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) is leading the funeral service for those who died in the shadow attack at the end of the ritual of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>). As [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>), and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) watch the funeral pyres burn and listen to the prayers of [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>), the lingering visions of the ritual leave the impression of webs of power connecting the initiates of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) together in a network of power. But the center is missing, and power seems to be slowly ebbing away. Hinting at the consequences of revealing the secret widely, the party can also faintly see six gray, brittle lines of the web, where they and [Tharandros](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/tharandros.md>) connect to the web of power, but don’t contribute as they are not truly initiated. The party spends the evening discussing their plans, and also briefly discussing [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)’s memories or vision of a woods in deep twilight, following a stream to a glade that is dark and old, as he held the bow [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) summoned for him during the shadow fight. 

The next morning, before heading south across the [Red Mesa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/red-mesa.md>) to find [Shakun’s Wellspring](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/shakuns-wellspring.md>) and perhaps [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>), or some clue of her, the party speaks with [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) once more. He describes [Shakun’s Wellspring](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/shakuns-wellspring.md>) -- a great open bowl canyon, below sheer cliffs stretching five hundred feet, accessible only by a narrow slot canyon that can be entered from a stair marked by a circle of stone trees grown from the rock of the mesa itself. [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) says it is a place of healing, and it does make sense that [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>) might go there to try to heal her sick young daughter. The mesa, [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) believes, is somehow [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) herself, or contains her essence somehow. But the Supreme Oracle -- [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>) -- was always the guardian of [Heart of Shakun](<../../../things/artifacts-of-power/heart-of-shakun.md>). Before the party leaves, [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) gives them a scroll of sending, and asks to be alerted to news when they have anything to tell him.

Then, after gathering what supplies they can in [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), the party leaves south across the [Red Mesa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/red-mesa.md>). The first day of travel is fairly uneventful, although the mesa is very quiet, and as the party travels south, they have the feeling that something is easing their passage, clearing the rough terrain ahead and keeping crevasses from opening under their feet. On the second day, [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) sends his silver raven ahead to scout, who returns twelve hours later with a report that, up ahead, a band of gnolls, skeletons, and other undead guard the entrance to [Shakun’s Wellspring](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/shakuns-wellspring.md>).

The party decides to creep forward to within a mile of the entrance and get a better look with [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s magic. They are able, then, to count about 20 creatures, a mix of skeletal gnolls, fleshy undead creatures of some kind, and gnoll hunters with longbows. They seem to be guarding the entrance but primarily to keep people from leaving. 

After a lot of debate, the party finally decides to circle around the guards and attempt to descend into the wellspring by flying down the sheer cliff walls, after [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) reads the omens of the future and reports that this is a good course of action. When the party reaches the cliffs above [Shakun’s Wellspring](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/shakuns-wellspring.md>), they see that at the bottom, five hundred feet below the cliff edge, there is a small camp set up near the circle of trees marking the Wellspring itself. A woman, [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>), kneels in prayer near the camp, and some distance away are a number of grave markers and the remains of a funeral pyre. The party begins to descend, which starts uneventfully, with [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) (carrying [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)) scaling down the wall using his spider climb spell, and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and then [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) flying down with [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)’s magic. When [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) speaks to [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>), almost the first thing she says is that he needs to hide, immediately, or risk everything. 

As confusion breaks out across the party, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) rushes to hide among the trees while [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) descends, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) hides at the top of the cliff, and [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) begins to climb back up the cliffs. Eventually, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) and [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) end up crouched in [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>)’s tent, as from the far side of the canyon a [creature](<../../../people/other-nonhumans/samerki.md>) emerges: maybe seven feet tall, or a bit under, generally human in features but somehow unnaturally stretched or elongated, giving him an eerie, not-quite-human feel. This creature carried a huge, spiked club, and wore a dark cloak putting his face in shadow. He looked down at [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>), laughing, and saying in a booming and cruel voice, “Good, you are still here, your daughter will live another day.” As he looks around, he seems to notice something on the far side of the cliffs, and heads towards [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) and [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>). While [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) casts meld with stone and fades into the cliff wall, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) is caught in the open, defiant and knocking an arrow without a good place to hide. As the creature flies across the canyon towards [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) turns his shadow into a vaguely humanoid form, and sends it running across the top of the canyon, distracting the creature searching for [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) for a moment. As it goes to swing its club towards the [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) shadow, [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>) yells in a supernaturally loud voice from below, as she causes an illusion to appear before her of a shadowy halfling form, “Wait, that is me. That was just my trick. I will give you want you want, just come back in the morning. Please. I can’t stay here any longer.” 

The creature, distracted by this moment, lands and looks down at [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>), laughing again, saying “I must report.” It takes a small stone out of its pocket, concentrating for a moment, and says, “She’s still here. Don’t kill her daughter. She’s agreed she’ll tell us what we need in the morning. I’m not sure it’s worth your travel.” And then it flies off. 

The session ends with [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) hiding in [Cintra](<../../../people/dunmari/cintra.md>)’s tent, [Drikod](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/guests/drikod.md>) melded with the stone of the cliff, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) hiding while his shadow (looking vaguely like [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)) moves along the edge of the cliff, and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) crouching in the open on the clifftop, hiding the best he can, bow at the ready.
