---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 43 (DuFr)
---

**(Friday, March 25th, 2022; in Taelgar, July 19th - July 23rd)

We begin as the party departs the caravanserai and small settlement at the crossroads where the [Tokra-Darba Road](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/roads/tokra-darba-road.md>) branches west and south from the [~AncientWestRoad~](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/roads/ancientwestroad.md>). The first day of travel passes uneventfully, despite the mud and rain, more noticeable now off the ancient Drankorian roads that seem impervious to bad weather.

Towards evening, the party comes to the [Akela Inn](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/akela-inn.md>) and fortification on the road, the last carvanserai until the [Darba](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/coastal-dunmar/darba/darba.md>) hinterlands, more than a hundred miles west. Here, they gather news: rumors of a dragon are everywhere, as are tales of bandits in the [Copper Hills](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/darba-highlands/copper-hills.md>). No travelers have come through for some time, since the messenger who reported the dragon several days ago. One caravan - well guarded - set out west carrying vellum from [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>) and silk from much further east, but no news has come from either direction since then. While here, the party also speaks with some [Aagir Mystai](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/aagir-mystai.md>). The [Aagir Mystai](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/aagir-mystai.md>) form something of a traveling knighthood of sorts, charged at least in part with keeping the roads safe for trade, and they are waiting for a larger troop to arrive to go sort out the bandits once and for all, and challenge the dragon as well if need be. Although [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) attempts to convince them to travel with the party, they refuse, saying they will wait for their companions. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) then collects [the story](<../collected-stories/amar-s-story.md>) of [Amar](<../../../people/dunmari/amar.md>), the innkeeper. 

The next few days pass in uneventful travel across the increasingly hilly and tree-covered landscape, until a combination of skill (particularly [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)’s beast sense ability) and luck leads to the party spotting a bandit ambush well before the bandits see them. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) sneak up behind the bandits, invisible, getting the jump on them. [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) intimidates them into submission, and eventually the party peacefully subdues the group of eight bandits that were watching the road here, prepared to ambush travelers who camp for the night. With an offer of money and a share of any treasure, the bandits agree to travel with the party.

At camp that night, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) listens to [Justan](<../../../people/dunmari/justan.md>)’s [story](<../collected-stories/justan-s-story.md>), the captain of this group of bandits. 

The next day passes uneventfully, but the day after, July 23rd, does not. After a slow morning that includes finding a disemboweled horse on the road, the party is ambushed during the afternoon rains by a pair of wyverns. While [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) is nearly killed by the venom in their stingers, and one bandit does die, the beasts are soon subdued. One wyvern is temporarily rendered harmless by [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), who turns it into a turtle. The party decides to keep it in the [Mirror of Soul Trapping](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/mirror-of-soul-trapping.md>). 

As the battle fades and the party begins to recover, they see riding over a low ridge on the north side of the road five adventurers – the Chardonian group traveling with [Marcella](<../../../people/chardonians/marcella.md>), from the inn at the start of the session. The Chardonians are attempting to purchase or trade for Drankorian magic. After some back and forth, the session ends as the seeming leader, a hooded man named [Kadmos](<../../../people/chardonians/kadmos.md>), attempts to speed up negotiation by using magic to place a charm on [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>); only [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) succeeds in resisting the magic, protected by the [Ring of the Warded Mind](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/ring-of-the-warded-mind.md>) taken from [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) Dustmother.