---
tags: [session-note]
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 36
realWorldDate: 2021-12-22
DR: 1748-07-01
DR_end: 1748-07-02
players: [Kenzo, Wellby, Delwath, Seeker]
tagline: in which a werewolf is subdued and hidden lair discovered
descTitle: Night of the Howl
name: Dunmari Frontier - Session 36
title: Dunmari Frontier - Session 36
---
# Dunmari Frontier - Session 36

>[!info] Night of the Howl: in which a werewolf is subdued and hidden lair discovered
> *Featuring: [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)*
> *In Taelgar: Jul 01, 1748 DR to Jul 02, 1748 DR*
> *On Earth: Wednesday Dec 22, 2021*
> *[Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>)*

The [Dunmar Fellowship](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/dunmar-fellowship.md>) subdues a cursed werewolf, learns of cursed ruins, negotiates between Dunmari factions, and encounters animated statues in a hidden tunnel.
## Session Info
### Summary
- The [Dunmar Fellowship](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/dunmar-fellowship.md>) stands guard at the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>) and subdues a werewolf, , who is revealed to be [Dag Hardstone](<../../../people/dwarves/dag-hardstone.md>), cursed with lycanthropy.
- [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), with divine aid, cures Dag of his lycanthropy, while the rest of the party remains vigilant through the night.
- The party learns from veteran [Ashar](<../../../people/dunmari/ashar.md>) about [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) seeking out a cursed fort and decide to investigate the fort themselves.
- Summoned by Commander [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) admits to the party's clairvoyance spying, and [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>) tasks them with delivering a truce message to [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>).
- Using a scroll, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) sends the truce message to [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>), who agrees to a non-aggression pact while seeking the gods' will.
- The party heads north, discovers tracks leading to a hidden tunnel, and upon opening a door inside, they find statues that come to life.

### Timeline
- Jul 01, 1748 DR, late evening: Return to [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>). Stand guard as the full moon rises. Hear a howl from below. Investigate, meeting the [Hardstones](<../../../groups/dwarven-clans/hardstones.md>), including [Dag Hardstone](<../../../people/dwarves/dag-hardstone.md>), who has been cursed with lycanthropy. After subduing Dag, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) restores him with a ritual
- Jul 01, 1748 DR, night: [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) sleep at the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>); [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) returns to the monastery to ensure the [Lakan mystai](<../../../groups/dunmari-mystery-cults/lakan-mystai.md>) are safe.
- Jul 02, 1748 DR, morning: Meet at [Darshana's Caravanserai](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/darshana-s-caravanserai.md>) after breakfast; speak with [Darshana](<../../../people/dunmari/darshana.md>). Learn that [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) may have vanished searching near an abandoned fort guarding a place of strange, cursed magic of madness from [Ashar](<../../../people/dunmari/ashar.md>), a Dunmari veteran. 
- Jul 02, 1748 DR, noon: Return to [Kirian's](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/kirian-s.md>). Asked to visit Dunmari army camp and speak with [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>), the commander. Attempt to spy with clairvoyance, but are detected. Narrowly avoid severe punishment after [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) admits to the spying; conscripted to get a message to [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) to try to prevent war. Use scroll of Sending. 
- Jul 02, 1748 DR, early afternoon: Leave north to look for [Saka](<../../../people/dunmari/saka.md>), but decide to investigate the abandoned Drankorian fort first. Discover tracks, leading to a hidden tunnel, enter, follow tunnel to a door. Delwath's looks through the door with his newfound powers, and see hideous statues. Open door, as the statues come alive. 


## Narrative
Our session begins as the party crosses [Jita](<../../../people/historical-figures/dunmari-rulers/jita.md>)’s Square, leaving [Kirian's](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/kirian-s.md>) after dinner and heading for the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>), to keep watch of signs of werewolves in the night, as the full moon rises. At the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>), the party debates what to do, while [Ardan](<../../../people/dunmari/ardan.md>) summons extra guards. During the debate, the party hears a piercing howl, cut short. After initially splitting up to cover more ground, the party reconvenes in the basement of the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>), where the Hardstone clan quarters are and the howls are coming from. 

A werewolf has broken loose from some chains, and despite the [dwarves](<../../../species/dwarves.md>) telling the party to go, they stay and subdue it without damage. [Fallthra Hardstone](<../../../people/dwarves/fallthra-hardstone.md>) runs sobbing to the dwarven boy that the stunned werewolf shifts into – her son [Dag Hardstone](<../../../people/dwarves/dag-hardstone.md>), cursed with lycanthropy in the attack on the archive some weeks ago. He started feeling the effects a few nights ago as the moon waxed towards full, but Fallthra, her husband [Delig Hardstone](<../../../people/dwarves/delig-hardstone.md>), and her brother [Morkral Hardstone](<../../../people/dwarves/morkral-hardstone.md>) thought they could handle it somehow. After Dag is subdued, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) communes with his patron, who still has some divine connection, and is able to restore Dag to himself. At this point, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) returns to check on the monastery, while the rest of the party sleeps in the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>), keeping watch through the night. 

In the morning, the party meets at [Darshana's Caravanserai](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/darshana-s-caravanserai.md>) outside the west gates of [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), to try to learn more about [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>)’s comings and goings from the old soldiers he swapped stories with there. [Darshana](<../../../people/dunmari/darshana.md>) points them to a small group of older veterans who she says [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) hung around with. One of them, [Ashar](<../../../people/dunmari/ashar.md>), missing an eye from his time fighting gnolls during the [Summer of Red Storms](<../../../events/1700s/1709/summer-of-red-storms.md>), is happy to chat. He tells the stories of his battles that summer, and then moves on to speak of [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>). He came to chat about a month ago, asking about strange old forts north of the city. He had brought some map that he said was a clue, as well as records of the battle against the [Fraternity of the Empty Moon](<../../../groups/fraternity-of-the-empty-moon.md>). He wanted to go explore the ruins to find out how the gods protected the soldiers that fought for [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) there, saying the gods would protect him too. After some discussion of the fort, [Ashar](<../../../people/dunmari/ashar.md>)’s friend revealed he had snuck there on a dare as a child, but it was horrible – nightmares for weeks, imagining killing his friends and being pleased with himself for it. 

After speaking with [Ashar](<../../../people/dunmari/ashar.md>) the party decides to head north, looking for [Saka](<../../../people/dunmari/saka.md>) and investigating the fort. But as they return to [Kirian's](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/kirian-s.md>) to leave word, they are greeted by a small patrol from the Dunmari army, summoning them to come speak with the commander of the army, [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>). The captain of the patrol, [Amay](<../../../people/dunmari/amay.md>), agrees to give the party a few moments in their quarters to get organized. During this time [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) casts clairvoyance on the commander’s tent, seeing him reading papers after breakfast, and then hearing a discussion where he is asking what is taking his men so long to get back with the party. He then notices a ring on his finger glowing, swears, and gets the Chardonian mage, [Drusa](<../../../people/chardonians/drusa.md>), who sees the clairvoyance sensor. 

The party then goes to meet with [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>). When they arrive, the camp is on alert, and [Drusa](<../../../people/chardonians/drusa.md>), the mage, tells them they may not enter carrying magic or weapons due to a recent spying attempt on the commander. Everyone refuses to comply, until [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) resolves the standoff by agreeing to go in himself, without magic or weapons. 

Meeting with [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>), [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) admits to the clairvoyance, convincing the commander that this was a reasonable precaution given everything they have faced with [Agata](<../../../people/fey/agata.md>) and the dangers of [hags](<../../../primary-sources/story-about-hags.md>). [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>) is angry with the party for the spying and their refusal to even meet the demands to speak with him, but he senses the godly presence on [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) and decides not to kill him for the capital crime of spying on an army commander in the field. [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>) has summoned the party because the high priestess of [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), [Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>), has prayed and received a vision from [Sonkar](<../../../gods-and-religions/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/sonkar.md>) that to her suggests the gods greatest desire is to avoid Dunmari fighting Dunmari. [Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>) has tasked [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>) with finding out what [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) wants, and whether she will agree to a truce to put the matter of the rightful ruler of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) in the hands of the gods. He tasks the party with bringing [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) this message of truce. 

The party decides to use their scroll of sending to avoid the potentially long journey across the plains. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) sends the message: “[Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>) knows. Offers truce: stay east of river, they will stay west while priests discern gods' will. [Sonkar](<../../../gods-and-religions/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/sonkar.md>) dreads war. Accept? Send messenger, safety promised.” [Sura](<../../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) replies, “I also wish to know the gods’ will. I do not know how their will will be known. But until then, I will not fight.” This is enough to satisfy [Illyan](<../../../people/dunmari/illyan.md>) for now, and he gives the party permission to continue on their business, but to let him know when they return to town from their journey north.

Heading north of [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), the party decides after some debate to at least briefly investigate the old ruins before turning upriver to look for [Saka](<../../../people/dunmari/saka.md>). Cutting across the plains, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>)’s sharp eyes and halfling luck turn up footprints and claw prints in the dry earth. Turning south to follow the trail, the party comes to a small depression in the ground with a small pile of rubble and stone at the southern end. [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)’s sharp eyes and familiarity with stone and earth reveal that the rubble hides a hidden tunnel heading southeast, towards the city a thousand feet or so away. After debating how to avoid the crossbow trap pointed at the rubble, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) eventually just digs through the dirt to drop into the tunnel from above. The party travels some ways underground, until they come to a steel door. As [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) looks through the door to reveal a room with four large, grotesque statues, the session ends as the party swings the door open and the statues’ heads turn in alarm. 
