---
tags: [status/unknown]
title: Session 38 (DuFr)
---


**(Sunday, Jan 23rd, 2022; in Taelgar, July 2nd)

Our session begins with [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>), hiding in the basement of the werewolves’ lair, dwelling on the past month. 

##### [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>)’s Story

*As the noise of battle echoes above, [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) crouches among the empty barrels of this basement storeroom. With the scent of blood, a image flashes through his mind: leaning over a dead body, tearing at flesh. He briefly is overcome by imagining leaping up, letting the wild strength rush over his body, reveling in the power of his hands growing to claws, his teeth to fangs. But, like so many times before, he pushes the desire away, muttering a soft prayer to [Jeevali](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/jeevali.md>) to keep him safe, to keep him in control.

*He thinks of the nightmare his life has become in the past month, not daring yet to hope his unexpected rescuers may succeed, winning not just the battle above but finding a cure for his curse. A month ago, he was riding high on the joy of discovery, after [Hada](<../../../people/dunmari/hada.md>) uncovered letters from [Ila](<../../../people/historical-figures/ila.md>), and a map. Here was a chance to do some real exploring, to uncover the mysteries that surrounded the [Fraternity of the Empty Moon](<../../../groups/fraternity-of-the-empty-moon.md>)! The gods are great and would lead him to knowledge, surely. Of course he rushed off with [Hada](<../../../people/dunmari/hada.md>) to explore, stopping only to ask the old veterans at [Darshana's Caravanserai](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/darshana-s-caravanserai.md>) if they knew anything more. Who could wait when the thrill of discovery was right there?

*Getting to the old fort was easy, following the map. Little was left, just two of the four corner towers, and a great gash in the earth. Yet strangely the gash could not be approached, not without a gray fog enveloping his thoughts, until he found himself wandering far from the gash, confused and disoriented. If only he and [Hada](<../../../people/dunmari/hada.md>) had not had a long conversation right there about the map, what might be missing, what more they could find in the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>). For one of the beasts must have been listening, perhaps hidden in the tower ruins.

*Then the terror of the attack. Just flashes–waking to a silent wolf/human hybrid as its jaws closed around his arm. Screaming in pain, passing out. Coming to consciousness briefly to see [Dag Hardstone](<../../../people/dwarves/dag-hardstone.md>), one of the dwarf kids, dead and bleeding in the hall, then fainting to blessed darkness.

*Then finding himself in an underground cell, strangely light, though all the color is bleached from the world. The days pass in a blur of pain and bloodlust. They keep pressing: they need to figure out what is missing from the map, how to get into the gash itself. They seem driven by urgency. Then silence. Leaving him alone. But also no food, little water. The big guard keeps poking him and laughing: "Soon you'll get all the food you want, and once you taste flesh there is no going back." Then, just blackness. A day? Two? Hard to know, until he wakes back in his cell, the gnawed bones of [Hada](<../../../people/dunmari/hada.md>) strewn around his cell. If he knew the secret to the map, the clue that he must be missing, he would tell them now. He already suggested magic, invisible ink perhaps.

*It gets harder to resist the blackness he knows is creeping across his soul. He is not sure he can survive another night of the full moon, and certainly not two. He prayers constantly to the gods, but he does not know if they can here him in this dark place. Why did he ever think they have power, in the first place. Clearly the madness is stronger than them, clearly Jinnick's howl will spread, for who can stop the inevitable?

*Until those strangers appeared, glowing in a magical light, slaughtering his captors. The Dunmari man, [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), seemed possessed of an inner light, like the warm embrace of [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/bhishma.md>) telling him he was found again, of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) telling him he was protected, of [Laka](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/laka.md>) telling him he could be cured. Maybe these people were the answer to his prayers, after all. The story spills out of him. Why hold back, when talking to servants of the gods?

*His mind drifts back to the present as the sounds of battle fade. For a moment, terror grips him, for he knows not who won. Then the reassuring clatter of the rope [Ladder](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/companions/ladder.md>) that miraculously came to life at the command of the dwarf tells him he might really be saved, and gratitude for [Jeevali](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/jeevali.md>), for [Laka](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/laka.md>), for [Bhishma](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/bhishma.md>), for [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>), for the whole divine family fills his heart as hope begins to grow. He pauses, praying silently, staying hidden until told otherwise, as we drift back to the dining hall, the dead bodies, scattered papers tossed off the table, and our four adventures standing, catching their breath after the battle.*

We return to the adventurers as the party starts to search the bodies and the lair, and inspect their wounds. The search is interrupted by the sounds of something pounding against the door that [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) barred shut, and then a crash as a wolf leaps through the window. The wolf is quickly followed by a woman, who starts to shift, and another wolf. As the battle is engaged, two [Dwarves](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/dwarves/dwarves.md>) arrive, having been chasing the werewolves. One is a familiar face, [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) . The other is the retired adventurer and now innkeeper of [The Iron Swan](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/the-iron-swan.md>), [Vistra Fireforge](<../../../people/dwarves/vistra-fireforge.md>), wearing plate armor and carrying a giant maul. After a few moments the final werewolves are dispatched, with the aid of the newcomers.

In the aftermath of the battle the party learns that [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) came to [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>) after a group of merchants arrived in [Tharn Todor](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/nardith/tharn-todor.md>) and turned to werewolves, attacking the city. Once subdued and healed, the [Dwarves](<../../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/dwarves/dwarves.md>) learned they had been attacked by a pack of wolves outside [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), and [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) traveled to investigate, meeting up with [Vistra Fireforge](<../../../people/dwarves/vistra-fireforge.md>) in the city. After speaking with the Hardstones at the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>), they had learned the party was in town and tracked them down. 

The party searches the bodies and the papers, uncovering what seem to be calculations about the moon and calendars, as well as a key and what seems to be a prophecy written in an unknown language, that [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) reads: 

When the sixth moon rises in the betrayer sky,
When the deepest echo of madness is nigh,
In the ancient cave of the [Mad One](<../../../cosmology/gods/embodied-gods/mad-one.md>)'s soul.
Thirteen brethren, thirteen prayers,
Thirteen cold iron spears prepared,
Will bring forth the howl of empty despair.
And [Jinnik](<../../../cosmology/gods/high-gods/jinnik.md>)'s curse will claim the land.

While searching the lair, they also uncover a giant calendar painted on the wall of the master bedroom that seems to be counting down days until August 1st, the next full moon, and some scattered coins and trinkets. 

After [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) heals [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) of suspected lycanthropy, she goes with [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) to search the basement again for whatever the leader’s key opens, while [Vistra Fireforge](<../../../people/dwarves/vistra-fireforge.md>) keeps onlookers from getting curious and the rest of the party takes a short rest. In the basement, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) finds a secret door hidden by an illusory wall. Inside is a small room with a locked chest, and a table with a map spread out on it. As [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) opens the chest, poison gas pours out. [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) jumps on the table to get above it, while [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) dashes out of the room. After some debate about how to rescue [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) and get the stuff out of the chest, [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) uses mage hand to pass the [Raven Whistle](<../treasure/treasure-from-agata/raven-whistle.md>) to [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>), letting her fly over the gas; [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) also retrieves some items from the chest, including an [Ivory Scroll Cap](<../treasure/treasure-from-raven-s-hold/ivory-scroll-cap.md>) that looks very familiar. As the party regroups, they decide to excavate a pit for the gas to pool in in order to get the rest of the stuff from the chest. 

Finally, at about 4:30 in the afternoon, the party leaves the lair, [Vistra Fireforge](<../../../people/dwarves/vistra-fireforge.md>) remaining behind on guard until [Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>) can be notified. [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) goes to speak with [Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>) to let her know of the events of the day, while the rest of the party escorts [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) back to the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>), where [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) cures him of his lycanthropy. 

[Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>) is shocked as she is not sure where the werewolves could have come from, given that anyone bearing [Jinnik](<../../../cosmology/gods/high-gods/jinnik.md>)’s curse should have been turned away by [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>)’s protection. She speculates that [Chardon](<../../../gazetteer/west-coast/chardonian-empire/chardon/chardon.md>) is the source, perhaps unaware, or momentarily forgetting in her shock, that [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>)’s protection was inoperative for months. She relays rumors from a hundred years ago of werewolves in [Tokra](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/tokra.md>), before the protections of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari/shakun.md>) were complete, and invites [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) to return for dinner with his companions. 

In the [Archives](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/tokra/archives.md>), the party regroups while [Riswynn](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/riswynn.md>) heals [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) and [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>) organizes the papers and notes in the strange language, not able to make much sense of them but translating them for [Govir](<../../../people/dunmari/govir.md>) to interpret later. The notes on the prophecy are a bit clearer, in particular what seems to be someone’s note to themselves: “We must find a way past the Dunmari's maze, and we must find a way to get to the Dunmari city without attracting attention. Maybe the old witch can help, if I can find something to trade worthy of her.” The party also receives a copy of the letter that [Servius](<../../../people/chardonians/servius.md>) found, from [Ardan](<../../../people/dunmari/ardan.md>): [Archives Letter](<../letters-notes-and-tales/archives-letter.md>).

At dinner with [Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>), the conversation focuses on the werewolves, the old fort and the connection to [Pandemonium](<../../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/primal-realms/pandemonium.md>). [Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>) vows to send guards to keep watch on the place, and the party also tentatively agrees to investigate on their way north. From [Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>), they also learn that the building the werewolves established as their lair was in the northern part of the city that was somewhat run down and abandoned, and now filled with refugees. She notes that if the city were not full of refugees, a large group of strangers probably would not have been able to set up a base unnoticed. 

As the dinner breaks up and the party goes to a well-deserved rest, they agree that they would tell [Kaleha](<../../../people/dunmari/kaleha.md>) if they find anything, and turn in for the night, planning on awakening early in the pre-dawn light to search for signs of werewolves.