---
tags: [session-note]
campaign: Dunmari Frontier
sessionNumber: 4
realWorldDate: 2020-07-09
DR: 1748-03-26
DR_end: 1748-03-29
players: [Kenzo, Wellby, Delwath, Seeker]
tagline: in which the party uncovers dire truths
descTitle: Shakun's Wane
name: Dunmari Frontier - Session 4
title: Dunmari Frontier - Session 4
---
# Dunmari Frontier - Session 4

>[!info] Shakun's Wane: in which the party uncovers dire truths
> *Featuring: [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>), [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>)*
> *In Taelgar: Mar 26, 1748 DR to Mar 29, 1748 DR*
> *On Earth: Thursday Jul 09, 2020*
> *[Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>)*

The [Dunmar Fellowship](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/dunmar-fellowship.md>) arrives in [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) and discovers that the [magical protections of Shakun](<../../../cosmology/religions/five-siblings/shakun-s-protection.md>) are failing, leading to increased dangers and a plea for their aid.
## Session Info

***The party takes treasure from the fort: [Aagir's Everlight](<../../../things/magic-items/aagir-s-everlight.md>), a Black Iron Staff, a [Floating Disc Coin](<../treasure/notable-items/floating-disc-coin.md>), and a [Horn of Silent Alarm](<../../../things/magic-items/horn-of-silent-alarm-dunmari.md>); they also return recovered temple goods to [Suma](<../../../people/dunmari/suma.md>) in [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) in exchange for a scroll of Cure Wounds***
### Summary
- The [Dunmar Fellowship](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/dunmar-fellowship.md>) departs the fort with various artifacts and heads to Karawa.
- In [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), they learn from Elder [Kisa](<../../../people/dunmari/kisa.md>) about past disturbances and the [Summer of Red Storms](<../../../events/1700s/1709/summer-of-red-storms.md>).
- The party learns more about [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>), attacked herders, and the upcoming [Festival of Rebirth](<../../../time/holidays-and-festivals/dunmari-festivals/festival-of-rebirth.md>)  from [Ikram](<../../../people/dunmari/ikram.md>), [Jasu](<../../../people/dunmari/jasu.md>), and [Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>).
- The [Charmhearts](<../../../groups/halfling-families/charmhearts.md>), a group of halflings, provide an unsettling encounter with a [disheveled halfling](<../../../people/halflings/ander-charmheart.md>) speaking of a 'master'.
- [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) of the [Temple of Shakun](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/temple-of-shakun.md>) reveals the weakening of [magical protections](<../../../cosmology/religions/five-siblings/shakun-s-protection.md>) and seeks the party's help.
### Timeline
- Mar 26, 1748 DR, morning: Wake in temple at the [Dunmari fort](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/dunmari-fort-gomat.md>), set out west for [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>)
- Mar 26, 1748 DR, afternoon: Travel west across the [Daraar Canyon](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/daraar-canyon.md>), heading for [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>)
- Mar 27, 1748 DR: Travel west towards [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>)
- Mar 28, 1748 DR: Travel west towards [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>)
- Mar 29, 1748 DR, early afternoon: Arrive in [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>). Speak with Elder [Kisa](<../../../people/dunmari/kisa.md>), who tells them about the [Summer of Red Storms](<../../../events/1700s/1709/summer-of-red-storms.md>). Meet [Ikram](<../../../people/dunmari/ikram.md>), who tells them about [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>). Meet the smith, [Jasu](<../../../people/dunmari/jasu.md>). Meet the [Charmhearts](<../../../groups/halfling-families/charmhearts.md>).
- Mar 29, 1748 DR, evening: Speak with [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>), who is nervous and seems to be hiding something. Learn about [Shakun's Protection](<../../../cosmology/religions/five-siblings/shakun-s-protection.md>) from [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>). Learn rumors of permanent lightning storm on the plains, and half-human, half-hyena beasts known as gnolls raiding.

## Narrative
The session began with the party waking up in the intact temple of the ruined fort, a sense of calm and peace permeating the area after the defeat of the zombie hobgoblin and the destruction of the cursed obsidian focus. After a little while spent in further exploration, as well as sketching the face of the [petrified explorer](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>) and briefly debating heading back in the tunnels to try to tame a cockatrice, the party set off for [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>). Before leaving, [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) studies the tunnel a bit and learns that it is relatively old, at least a few months and maybe more, and created by a creature. Taking the relics found in the temple (including the small [spearpoint statue](<../../../things/magic-items/aagir-s-everlight.md>) enchanted with continual light), the Black Iron Staff inscribed with the words: *"I bind you to the black wind, I bind you to my flame, I bind you in my power until the sun fails and the moon is dead"* in Draconic, what looks like a holy symbol relating to [Cha'mutte](<../../../people/extraplanar-powers/cha-mutte.md>) (made of black pearl and polished silver in a twisted flame design), as well as the [golden floating coin](<../treasure/notable-items/floating-disc-coin.md>) and a [horn engraved with a running horse design](<../../../things/magic-items/horn-of-silent-alarm-dunmari.md>), the party leaves. 

Traveling back to [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) took about 3 days at a fast, but not exhausting, pace. Arriving in the early afternoon on March 29th, the town has changed. Lots of people -- not just Dunmari -- have arrived for the Festival, and the markets and games that accompany it, and a large tent city has grown up on the outskirts of town. The caravanserai is bustling, and there is more activity and trade happening in [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>) than any of you had seen since arriving in what was a sleepy town. 

RIght away, the party finds Elder [Kisa](<../../../people/dunmari/kisa.md>), and reports to her that they seem to have destroyed the source of the disturbances. [Kisa](<../../../people/dunmari/kisa.md>) has been quite worried, as news of several more attacks have come into town with travelers returning for the festival. [Kisa](<../../../people/dunmari/kisa.md>) is not able to tell them much about the staff, and seems taken aback by the Draconic writing on it, directing them to [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>). She does, however, talk about the [Summer of Red Storms](<../../../events/1700s/1709/summer-of-red-storms.md>), a time about 40 years ago when some half-human, half-hyena creatures rampaged across the border for two months before they were stopped. She also tells them the sketch of the [petrified explorer](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>) is not someone from [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), and directs them to [Ikram](<../../../people/dunmari/ikram.md>) to learn more about him. As they leave, she tells them that the town will pay for their stay at [Ikram’s](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/ikrams.md>) while they are here, in thanks for the aid they provided the town.

Heading to the [caravanserai](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/ikrams.md>), the party meets [Ikram](<../../../people/dunmari/ikram.md>), who is eager to sit and talk and share stories and meet new people. [Ikram](<../../../people/dunmari/ikram.md>) tells them a bit about the petrified explorer. His name was [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>), and he passed through town maybe a month ago. Kept to himself, and didn’t stay long (and wasn’t the first stranger to come through over the winter; several other quiet, silent types had passed through). [Ikram](<../../../people/dunmari/ikram.md>) recalls that [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>) spoke with a foreign accent, and paid with unusual coin that [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) recognized from the description as Chardonian. [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>) was interested in artifacts and was asking who might be able to identify them, and was directed to [Jasu](<../../../people/dunmari/jasu.md>), the smith. From [Ikram](<../../../people/dunmari/ikram.md>), they also learned that [Alesh](<../../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>) is considered the local expert in Dunmari history and especially artifacts people turn up on the road, and they heard more news of people who were attacked by beasts. [Akan](<../../../people/dunmari/akan.md>), who the party met at the [Gomat](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/gomat.md>) oasis, made it safely to town with his surviving family. Another herder, [Devana](<../../../people/dunmari/devana.md>) and his family, were attacked by axebeaks and lost several family members.

After a bit more conversation with [Ikram](<../../../people/dunmari/ikram.md>) about lighter subjects, including the upcoming axebeak riding competition before the [Festival of Rebirth](<../../../time/holidays-and-festivals/dunmari-festivals/festival-of-rebirth.md>), the party headed for [Jasu](<../../../people/dunmari/jasu.md>)’s shop, to ask about [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>). Ending up back at [Ikram’s](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/ikrams.md>) with [Jasu](<../../../people/dunmari/jasu.md>), the party talks about [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>). [Jasu](<../../../people/dunmari/jasu.md>) tells them [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>) was asking about artifacts, especially things dating from the [Great War](<../../../events/1500s/great-war.md>). He left a couple of spear points with [Jasu](<../../../people/dunmari/jasu.md>), silvered, and asked if he would haft them to wooden shafts so they could be used. It sounded like [Arcus](<../../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>) expected to be back in town in a few weeks at most, and [Jasu](<../../../people/dunmari/jasu.md>) thought it strange he had not returned. The silvered spearpoints were odd, too -- hard to work with and resistant to forging. 

Leaving [Jasu](<../../../people/dunmari/jasu.md>) to his dinner, they head to say hello to a group of halflings -- marked by their colorful wagons -- in town for the Festival and markets. The matriarch of the group introduces herself as [Bree Charmheart](<../../../people/halflings/bree-charmheart.md>), and welcomes the party to sit and chat for a bit. After some small talk with [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>), reflected on their shared Sembaran origins, she seems to get increasingly chilly and unwelcoming. [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) asks her about her sick companion, and she acts like they have overstayed their welcome in a short time. Just before the party leaves, a [disheveled, unkempt halfling](<../../../people/halflings/ander-charmheart.md>) staggers out of one of the wagons, looking around dazed and confused but with an incongruous look of joy on his face. As the party hurries away, [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) tells them that this disheveled halfling was talking to him, talking about the master, saying “*The master is waiting. You'll find joy with the master, the master wants you to come and join us. Over and over and over asked him to name the master and he said the master is my master, Master will consume the world and bring us joy.*”

At this point, the party splits up before bed. [Delwath](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>), [Seeker](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>), and [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) head to the oasis to meditate and try to get insight from [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/shakun.md>), while [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) continues to talk and drink with [Ikram](<../../../people/dunmari/ikram.md>). About 10:30 or 11 at night, [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) walks out of the temple of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/shakun.md>), sees most of the party, and sends [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) to get [Kenzo](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) at the inn, where [Wellby](<../../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) proceeds to attempt an ancient halfling trick to sober you up quick involving three eggs and a stick.

Eventually the party gathered at the oasis and the temple, seeing a man on a horse in warrior gear ride past leaving the temple as they are assembling (this is [Havdar](<../../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>), a warrior who reported the rumors of hyena-humanoids attacking to the south to [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>)). [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>) ushered them into a small room to the side of the entryway of the [Temple of Shakun](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/temple-of-shakun.md>). As the party began to talk with [Candrosa](<../../../people/dunmari/candrosa.md>), it became clear he was nervous and hiding something. When asked directly, he seemed almost relieved, but also uncertain as to whether he could trust the party, and almost struggling with himself as to how much to reveal. After hearing the stories of why the party is there, and casting Zone of Truth and asking them if they are here to aid or hinder [Karawa](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/eastern-dunmar/karawa.md>), he begins to talk, telling the party about the magic of [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/shakun.md>) that protects the borders of [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>), creating illusions and misdirection preventing enemies from finding their way in the desert. He talks about how this magic has kept [Dunmar](<../../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) safe for many generations, and then about how [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/shakun.md>) seems to have abandoned the Dunmari. He is terrified and asks for their aid, saying “If [Shakun](<../../../cosmology/gods/incorporeal-gods/dunmari-pantheon/shakun.md>) cannot protect us, we will have to rely on more mundane forces.” During the conversation, he also passes along two additional rumors, one about a never-ending lightning storm, and one about rampaging hyena-humanoids, but says there will be time to talk more in the morning. 
