---
tags: [timeline, status/unknown]
campaignInfo:
name: Dunmari Frontier Timeline
timelineDescriptor: Dunmari Frontier Campaign
title: Dunmari Frontier Timeline
---

- Aug 02, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wellby leaves Semabara, heading south. Spends some time wandering.
- Aug 17, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Delwath teleports from the shadow realm, arriving near Kharsan, witless and wild.
- Aug 19, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Delwath found wandering by Pava and Avaras west of Kharsan, taken in.
- Aug 20, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Delwath leaves stone house in the middle of the night
- Aug 22, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Delwath found outside Bas Udda by a shepherd, taken in.
- Oct 04, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Seeker arrives in Chardon
- Dec 02, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wellby arrives at the mountains, but cannot cross to Dunmar because of snow. Travels around in frontier lands waiting for the passes to open.
- Dec 06, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Delwath, recovered, leaves for Karawa to learn more about the Shakun Mysteries
- Dec 11, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Delwath arrives in Karawa
- Dec 26, 1747 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Seeker leaves Chardon
- Feb 12, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wellby crosses the lower passes on the Karawa road into Dunmar, cutting overland to Tokra.
- Feb 15, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Seeker arrives in Songara
- Feb 21, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Seeker leaves Songara
- Mar 03, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wellby arrives in Tokra, spends the night before heading east towards Karawa for the Festival of Rebirth
- Mar 04, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wellby leaves Tokra for Karawa
- Mar 05, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Seeker arrives in Tokra.
- Mar 09, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Seeker leaves Tokra for Karawa
- Mar 10, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Riswynn leaves Tharn Todar, heading north for Raven's Hold
- Mar 11, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Kenzo leaves the Lakan Monastery at Tokra, heading for Karawa in search of answers about his dreams, and the jade fragment he carries.
- Mar 19, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wellby arrives in Karawa.
- Mar 21, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Seeker arrives in Karawa
- Mar 22, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Kenzo arrives in Karawa. Giant hyena attack. Village elders, including Candrosa and Elder Kisa, ask Delwath and companions to help. The party heads into the desert, where they meet Alesh on the road and turn east to the Gomat Oasis, where they find and kill giant lizards feasting on a dead sheep.
- Mar 23, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party meets [Akan](<../../people/dunmari/akan.md>) at the Gomat Oasis in the morning, a survivor of the giant lizard attack. Turns east into the Nashtkar (the blasted plains).
- Mar 24, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Riswynn leaves Askandi, heading for Karawa
- Mar 25, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives at a minor Dunmari fort east of Gomat. Finds petrified explorer, later learn he is from Chardon and named [Arcus](<../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>). Find and defeat an undead creature carrying a symbol of Cha'mutte in caves turned cockatrice lair beneath the fort. Destroy cursed obsidian stone on its staff that seems to be causing beasts to rampage. Rest in temple before heading back.
- Mar 29, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives back in Karawa. Speak with Elder Kisa, who tells them about the Summer of Red Storms. Meet Ikram, who tells them about [Arcus](<../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>). Meet the smith, Jasu. Meet the Charmhearts. Speak with Candrosa, who is nervous and seems to be hiding something. Learn about Shakun's Protection from Candrosa. Learn rumors of permanent lightning storm on the plains, and half-human, half-hyena beasts known as gnolls raiding.
- Mar 31, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: An anonymous benefactor leaves a dwarven book ("The Runes of Creation") for Seeker at Ikram's caravanserai in Karawa.
- Apr 02, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Kenzo wins the staff dancing competition in Karawa.
- Apr 03, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wellby places third in the axebeak races in Karawa.
- Apr 04, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Refugees from Bas Udda begin arriving in Karawa; mood changes in town. Party attends council meeting in Karawa with [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>), Alesh, Candrosa, Elder Kisa, and Suma. Decision made to evacuate Karawa. Alesh leaves to scout, a messenger leaves to the Samraat court in Nayahar. [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) starts recruiting warriors who can ride and fight.
- Apr 05, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Riswynn arrives in Karawa in the late afternoon. Festival of Rebirth begins at sundown with announcement of plan to flee west at first light in two days time.  Burning shrine of Jeevali casts embers to the winds, despite still air, which is interpreted as a sign supporting the decision to flee.
- Apr 06, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Day of fasting, prayer, and preparation. Festival of Rebirth concludes with a solemn procession, which is interrupted by a gnoll attack on the outskirts of town.
- Apr 07, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Dunmari and festival visitors leave Karawa with [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) and his band, moving as quicky as they can towards the relative safety of Tokra. Party leaves Karawa tracking gnolls. 
- Apr 08, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels north towards Raven's Hold.
- Apr 09, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels north. Crosses road, meets Shani and her companions, who were trapped by a large fire started by permanent lightning storm. Fight and destroy a group of gnolls late in the evening.
- Apr 11, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels north across the plains.
- Apr 12, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party meets centaurs just south of Raven's Hold, speaks to Tharandros. Convinces him to take his band south to Karawa. Travel towards Raven's Hold. Party finds Dwarven back door, enter via tunnel. Meet Inakara and the twisted creatures that now make the dwarven output here home. Fight and kill a roper. Find Brawnanvil Shield and Shatterstorm in abandoned dwarven treasury. Find signs of mind flayer incursions from centuries ago. Cross through tunnels underground to Raven's Hold. Find and rescue Vola. Discover a demon in Raven's Hold performing some ritual to apparently create gnolls. Kill demon.
- Apr 13, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party wakes up in Raven's Hold. Kills many gnolls. Finds and destroys some demon-cursed plant creature near a summoning circle outside of Raven's Hold, watch poisoned water be washed away. Careful searching turns up little but a scroll cap from a scroll case. Free a bunch of penned up animals free. Camp near road.
- Apr 14, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels across the plains towards the lightning storm.
- Apr 15, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives at the lightning storm in the late afternoon. Vola remains outside at camp with the horses and heavy gear. Party pushes through the storm, arriving at Eudomes' Tower. Briefly explore and find remains of a Chardonian adventuring party camp, before night begins to fall and party realizes stars are changed. Decide to investigate tower more. Meet Hralgar, the trapped storm giant, missing his eyes.
- Apr 16, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party stumbles out of the storm around Eudomes' tower in the morning. Vola and Riswynn depart for Chardon and Tharn Todor, respectively. Party kills a group of emaciated and nearly undead gnolls on the plains.
- Apr 17, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels south towards Karawa.
- Apr 18, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels south towards Karawa.
- Apr 19, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels south towards Karawa.
- Apr 22, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party uses Eudomes' Mirror to examine the scroll cap found at Raven's Hold.
- Apr 23, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party spends night outside Karawa
- Apr 24, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives in Karawa. Learns news of gnoll attack from an exhausted and worn down Candrosa. Learns news of the south from Alesh, including an [orc](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) scouting party, a mysterious empty stone house, and another band of emaciated gnolls heading south and west into the [Garamjala Desert](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/garamjala-plateau/garamjala-desert.md>). Discuss [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>) Dustmother, the gnolls, and the events of the past month with Candrosa, who is disracted, worried, and nervous, especially when the topic of Shakun's protection comes up. Discuss the metaphysics of other planes and [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>) Dustmother with Tharandros. Decide to travel east with [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>).
- Apr 26, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Riswynn arrives in Tokra.
- Apr 27, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Eudomes' mirror used to examine Kenzo's shard of jade. Party departs Karawa with [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s warrior band.
- Apr 29, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party and [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s band arrive in Bas Udda. Meet Amil, an apprentice monk who is burning and giving last rites to bodies left untended after the gnoll attack. Fend of giant vultures. Amil surprised to see Delwath and mentioned his masters Avaras and Pava saved an elf in the desert some months ago. Party spends the night in ruins of Bas Udda. Drikod leaves [Kunda](<../../gazetteer/sentinel-range/kunda.md>), his village in the mountains.
- Apr 30, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party leaves Bas Udda in the afternoon with Amil, after helping him finish tending to the dead. Riswynn arrives in Askandi.
- May 01, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels with Amil through the desert.
- May 02, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party fights ogres in the desert. Arrive at stone house, home of Avaras and Pava, in the evening. Give Delwath his shadow breastplate back. Speak with them about Delwath, Bhishma, the Order of the Awakened Soul, and the Monastery of Bhishma near Kharsan. Learn about attempt by Order some 30 years ago to attempt something to heal the land, which failed badly, and none of the masters of the order return from the east. Learn of Saka, a master that did not travel east, now rumored to live north of Tokra.
- May 03, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Train with Avaras and Pava in the morning. Leave stone house for [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s camp in the afternoon.
- May 04, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels across desert towards [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s camp.
- May 05, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives in [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s camp just before sunset, in the middle of a combat with many [Orcs](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>). After defeating the [Orcs](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), interrogate [Gorkil](<../../people/orcs/gorkil.md>), a survivor, who rants about being a servant of Grash, the Blighted One, and that Grash's protection means he will rise stronger if he is killed. Eventually commands Seeker to kill him, ending the interrogation. Funeral for members of [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s band who died; [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) passes Samona's bowstring to Wellby. Briefly meet Aram, a member of [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s band who can heal with a touch. Riswynn arrives in Tharn Todor.
- May 06, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party leaves [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s camp, heading south, to approach Monastery of Bhishma while avoiding Kharsan.
- May 07, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party traveling across the desert.
- May 08, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party traveling south through the desert.
- May 09, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party traveling south through the desert, slowing pace to try to be quiet.
- May 10, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party gets slightly lost in the desert, turning east later than planned, but find the dry riverbed of the Kharja River and a place to camp. 
- May 11, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party turns north, following dry river towards Kharsan. Stop 10 miles south of the city for Wellby to scout. After Wellby returns, Kenzo tells party about Rai, his jade fragment, and their connection to the Order of the Awakened Soul and Bhishma. Continue to sheltered area just below cliffs of the monastery, and investigate monastery during the heat of the day, after lunch. Fight and kill a manticore family. Fight and kill or capture an [orc](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) patrol. Interrogate [orc](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), learning that the only other things in the monastery are ghosts; that Grash keeps a patrol here to report anything suspicious; and that Grash's armies are strong and will defeat [Uzgash's bastards](<../../groups/orc-hordes/people-of-the-rainbow.md>) soon. Enter common hall of the monastery, find initiation chamber. Kenzo and Seeker proceed down hallway illuminating the history of Bhishma and her miracles. Kenzo becomes initiate of the Bhishma Mystai, known as the Order of the Awakened Soul, dying and being revived during the process. Kenzo and Seeker return to the party reporting on Kenzo's vision hinting that the Heart of Shakun is missing from Karawa. Party then sets out for the Hall of Stories in the monastery. Explore Hall of Stories, learn some of the history of the Order of the Awakened Soul. Meet the ghost of Karmana, the last master of the monastery. Learn that Sajan, the keeper of stories, went mad long ago, trapped in evil dreams in the Hall of Stories. Return to camp at dusk.
- May 12, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Drikod arrives in Karawa. Party awakes to realization the [Orcs](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) know they are here. Decide to flee south, then turn northing after a day. Camp in desert.
- May 13, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party turns north and east, arrives at road/canyon of the Samraat Tombs by mid-morning. Hide horses and gear. Delwath scouts Kharsan invisibly while Seeker spies with clairvoyance on Grash. [Orcs](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) spot party trying to sneak back to shelter of the Samraat Tombs canyon. Give chase. Party rides fast for [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s camp.
- May 14, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels all day towards [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s camp. Attacked by shadow hunters at night.
- May 15, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives at [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s camp in the evening, finds it empty. Resupplies.
- May 16, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party leaves [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s camp for the stone house
- May 17, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives at the stone house, spend the night with Pava, Avaras, and Amil
- May 18, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party in desert, traveling to Karawa
- May 19, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party in desert, traveling to Karawa
- May 20, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party in desert, traveling to Karawa
- May 21, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party in desert, traveling to Karawa
- May 22, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party in desert, traveling to Karawa
- May 23, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives in Karwa in the late afternoon. Uses Eudome's Mirror to examine the piece of glass from the glassblower's shop in Kharsan. Meet Drikod. Here story of Cintra and Shakun's Heart from apologetic and floundering Candrosa.
- May 24, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party gathers supplies in Karawa during the day. Undergoes ritual of Shakun's Initiation at dusk. Seeker notices the mesa is crumbling. Attacked by shadows at conclusion of initiation ritual. Learn about the web of connections between initiates that powers the magic of Shakun that keeps Dunmar safe, using Shakun's Heart and the Temple of Shakun as a focus. Funeral for mystai killed by shadows. Party decides to leave for Shakun's Wellspring in the morning.
- May 25, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels across mesa
- May 26, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels across mesa.
- May 27, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives at that entrance to the Wellspring in the late afternoon, a circle of stone trees. Guarded by many gnolls, most of whom look skeletal and wasted away. Sneak around entrance, arriving at cliffs at sunset. Meet Cintra. Almost get found and attacked by Samerki. Make it to floor of canyon safely, eventually.
- May 28, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party hides in wellspring canyon all day. Cintra tells Samerki that [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>) must bring Jumi here, or she cannot come into her full power.
- May 29, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party enters Shakun's realm at dawn via the Wellspring portal. Hide until called by Jumi entering Shakun's realm at dusk. Emerge, fight [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>) Dustmother and Samerki, win. Cure Jumi with skillful use of dispel magic by Seeker. Attacked by gnolls emerging from wellspring canyon, alerted by pit trap. Recover many magic items from [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>), including her scepter of command. Spend the night in the canyon.
- May 30, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party leaves Wellspring in the morning, walking with Cintra and Jumi to Karawa. Horses have left camp to return already, coaxed by Baxter. 
- May 31, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels across mesa.
- Jun 01, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives in Karawa just before noon. Cintra and Jumi leave immediately to help with Shakun's Heart. Party speaks with incredibly grateful Candrosa. Talk to Tharandros. Talk to [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>), learn that a party of Chardonians had passed through a few days before. Wellby gets barding for Baxter. Party receives rewards. Settle into camp in town for the night, intending to leave for [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>)'s lair in the morning. Eudomes' mirror used to examine [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>)'s scepter, the scepter of command.
- Jun 02, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party leaves Karawa for [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>)'s lair, south of Bas Udda.
- Jun 03, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party arrives in Bas Udda, spends the night before venturing south to find [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>)'s lair.
- Jun 04, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party travels south from Bas Udda, finds [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>)'s lair, loots it, and flees to return in the morning. Spent the night camped about 1 ½ miles north of the path of dead trees in a canyon. Attacked by [Orcs](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>), seemingly associated with [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>), looking to recover gold and treasure, in the middle of the night. [Orcs](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) are driven off, but one [orc](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) and one jackalwere escape. 
- Jun 05, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel north to Bas Udda in the morning, and spend the afternoon hiding loot to leave behind and possibly return for. Free the last of the Dunmari wooden prisoners of [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>). Spend the night in Bas Udda.
- Jun 06, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel towards Karawa from Bas Udda, crossing into Shakun’s protection towards evening. Decide to destroy a few of [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>)’s magic items. Spend the night in the desert on the road.
- Jun 07, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel towards Karawa. Spend night in the desert.
- Jun 08, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Arrive in Karawa in the late afternoon. Get Cintra and Eudomes’ Mirror. Show the mirror of soul trapping to Eudomes’ Mirror, see its history. Free three Dunmari prisoners, including [Nayan Sura](<../../people/dunmari/sura.md>), the sister of the current Samraat and at least according to her, the rightful ruler of Dunmar.  End in the late afternoon as everyone heads into Karawa for the evening rest. 
- Jun 09, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party spends time in Karawa: Delwath gathers rumors and closes his affairs in town; Kenzo and Drikod prepare for Shakun’s initiation; Wellby trains Baxter; Seeker studies treasure.
- Jun 10, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party spends time in Karawa: Delwath gathers rumors and closes his affairs in town; Kenzo and Drikod prepare for Shakun’s initiation; Wellby trains Baxter; Seeker studies treasure.
- Jun 11, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party spends time in Karawa: Delwath gathers rumors and closes his affairs in town; Kenzo and Drikod prepare for Shakun’s initiation; Wellby trains Baxter; Seeker studies treasure. Wellby leaves with [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) and troops for Bas Udda to recover treasure left there.
- Jun 12, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party spends time in Karawa: Delwath gathers rumors and closes his affairs in town; Kenzo and Drikod prepare for Shakun’s initiation; Seeker and Delwath unlock more secrets of the mirror of soul trapping. Wellby travels with [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) and troops.
- Jun 13, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party spends time in Karawa: Delwath gathers rumors and closes his affairs in town; Kenzo and Drikod prepare for Shakun’s initiation; Seeker tours the mesa with Candrosa. Wellby travels with [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) and troops, arriving in Bas Udda.
- Jun 14, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party spends time in Karawa: Delwath gathers rumors and closes his affairs in town; Kenzo and Drikod prepare for Shakun’s initiation; Seeker studies treasure. Wellby leaves Bas Udda with [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>) and troops to return to Karawa.
- Jun 15, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party spends time in Karawa: Delwath gathers rumors and closes his affairs in town; Kenzo and Drikod prepare for Shakun’s initiation; Seeker studies treasure. Wellby returns to Karawa in the afternoon. Revaka interrogated in the Mirror of Soul Trapping. Eudomes’ Mirror used to examine Soul Lantern.
- Jun 16, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party spends time in Karawa: Delwath gathers supplies and speaks with the party in the evening; Kenzo and Drikod prepare for Shakun’s initiation; Seeker studies treasure. Wellby trains with Baxter and works on his map.
- Jun 17, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Delwath travels into the desert at first light. Kenzo and Drikod are initiated into the Shakun Mystai. Seeker studies treasure. Wellby trains with Baxter and works on his map. 
- Jun 18, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Feast of Bhishma begins in Karawa. Delwath returns from the desert at first light. Soul Lantern destroyed by Cintra during the remembrance prayers. Living Wood destroyed. 
- Jun 19, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Feast of Bhishma continues with a day of rest and celebration. [Nayan Sura](<../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) announces herself to the Dunmari of Karawa. 
- Jun 20, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Drikod leaves Karawa, heading north towards his home village of [Kunda](<../../gazetteer/sentinel-range/kunda.md>). The party, with Garrett Tealeaf, leaves Karawa heading west for Tokra.
- Jun 21, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel uneventfully west towards Tokra. Eudomes’ Mirror used to examine the Floating Disc Ring from [Arcus](<../../people/chardonians/arcus.md>). Discuss the possible evils of magic items with Garret.
- Jun 22, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel west towards Tokra. Seeker contacted telepathically by Typhina, a native of the feywild trapped in the ring recovered from [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>).
- Jun 23, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel uneventfully west towards Tokra.
- Jun 24, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel west towards Tokra. Stop to examine the ruins of ancient Drankorian aqueduct, with a lingering enchantment to purify water, and increase it, duplicating what is already flowing. Meet a family of Dunmari goat herders camped for a few days near the aqueduct. Stay the afternoon and evening.
- Jun 25, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Continue west towards Tokra.
- Jun 26, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Continue west towards Tokra.
- Jun 27, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Continue west towards Tokra.
- Jun 28, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Continue west towards Tokra. Use Eudomes' mirror on a dried scorpion taken from [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>), watch is begin to come alive in the magic of the mirror. Wellby shoots it before it can fully transform.
- Jun 29, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Continue west towards Tokra.
- Jun 30, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Arrive at the outskirts of Tokra in the early afternoon. Cross the bridge, pay the toll. Wellby takes Garrett to the halfling inn in town, the Red Lily. Rest of party continues south to the Lakan Monastery, arriving mid-afternoon, where they are welcomed by an ancient monk, Rishi, Kenzo's master and teacher. Learn that Speaker Lara and other mystai are traveling, following omens from Laka. Meet Basu at dinner, who gripes about the overflowing energy of Arborea in the elven ruins below the Lakan monastery. Also briefly meet Kassi, the head librarian at the monastery. Sleep at the monastery. After dinner discussed events in Tokra with Johar
- Jul 01, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Breakfast at the monastery, then delve into the elven ruins. Defeat slimes and oozes, get charmed by some kind of psychedelic fungus, Seeker and Wellby lose memories, confront massive velvet worm near weak point, distract it with the obsidian fly until Seeker turns it into a regular earthworm, return to surface with three vials filled with the essence of Arborea's extraplanar energy. Used obsidian fly. Exit elven runes, speak with Basu and with Kassi. Get rooms at Kirian's, then speak with Kaleha, revealing [Sura](<../../people/dunmari/sura.md>)'s reemergence. Speak with Ardan and learn more about missing archivist (Govir) and head scribe Hada, and the events at the archives. Dinner at Kirian's then return to archives for evening. At the archives, the party stands guard as the full moon rises, before hearing a howl from below. Going to search, they meet Delig Hardstone, Fallthra Hardstone, Morkral Hardstone, and Dag Hardstone, who has been cursed with lycanthropy. After subduing Dag, Delwath restores him with a ritual, and the party sleeps at the archives while Kenzo returns to the monastery to ensure they are safe.
- Jul 02, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Meet at Darshana's after breakfast, where they speak with Darshana about Govir, the archivist. Learn he hung out with some veterans. Ashar tells them that Govir was here before he disappeared, talking about going to search for clues in an old abandoned fort protecting a place of strange, cursed magic that drove people mad, that had been the site of a base of the Fratenity of the Empty Moon a hundred years or so ago. Return to Kirian's, where Amay, a captain of the Dunmari army is waiting to escort them to camp. Attempt to scry, but are detected. Go with Amay. Arrive at commander Illyan's tent, learn they must leave all magic behind to speak with him, enforced by Drusa, a Chardonian mage. Refuse, but agree to send Kenzo in. Narrowly avoid punishment as Illyan has been tasked by Kaleha to prevent war with [Sura](<../../people/dunmari/sura.md>). Party is conscripted to get a message to [Sura](<../../people/dunmari/sura.md>), which they do with a scroll of sending. Leave for north to look for Saka, but decide to head to fort first. Discover tracks, leading to a hidden tunnel. Avoid crossbow trap and follow tunnel to a door. Look through door and see hideous statues. Open door, statues come alive. Fight statues, then explore underground lair of [Fraternity of the Empty Moon](<../../groups/fraternity-of-the-empty-moon.md>). Kill 10 werewolves, including the leader, and rescue Govir. Find the dead body of Hada, the head scribe, killed apparently by Govir while in a lycanthropic rage. While searching the bodies, more werewolves attack. Riswynn and Vistra Fireforge join the fight, who had been tracking werewolves on behalf of the Dwaven kingdom of [Nardith](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/nardith/nardith.md>), in the Yuvanti mountains, after a small group of merchants-turned-werewolves from Tokra attacked there. Search the lair, finding notes and clues, and other treasures, and also a poison gas trap that Wellby sets off while exploring a secret room with Riswynn. Eventually leave with notes and calendars indicating something major happening on the next full moon, as well as the old map to the Pandemonium chasm. Riswynn cures Kenzo of suspected lycanthropy. Return Govir to archives while Kenzo speaks with Kaleha. Get copy of scroll that sent the Chardonian Servius towards Darba from Ardan. Entire party meets up with Kaleha for dinner to discuss the situation before heading to rest.
- Jul 03, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wake in pre-dawn light to search for remaining signs of werewolves. Follow tunnel in lair under city, then follow tracks to the old fort near the Pandemonium caves. Scrying and scouting reveal that the area is occupied. Attempt to approach quietly but foiled by unstealthy dwarves. Fight and force into surrender two werewolves, but a third, seemingly insane one, kills himself and some kind of avatar or cursed being from Pandemonium is summoned. Manage to kill it. Interrogate captives. One is violent and unwilling to speak; the other is a Dunmari refugee who was turned and wants to be cured. With the aid of Seeker's magic, the party forces the unwilling one to speak, who reveals the whole story of the werewolves' trade with [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>) and plotting to return to Tokra. Return with the captives to Tokra, leave them in the care of Riswynn while the rest of the party gathers gear for the journey north to find Saka. Camp about half a day north of Tokra along the river after an uneventful afternoon of travel in the summer heat.
- Jul 04, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel north. Meet Kiran, speak of Saka and the Order of the Awakened Soul. Continue north towards Saka's camp, spend the night on the plains.
- Jul 05, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Continue traveling north towards Saka's camp.
- Jul 06, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Enter Saka's camp in the morning, speak with Saka. Have lunch and leave camp after lunch.
- Jul 07, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel south to Tokra.
- Jul 08, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel south to Tokra. Arrive in Tokra in the evening. Dinner with Riswynn at Kirian's. Kenzo listens to Kirian's life story.
- Jul 09, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Speak with Hardstones and with Govir at the archives in the morning. First rains of the monsoon. Speak with Kaleha. Move to monastery.
- Jul 10, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Day of Renewal.
- Jul 11, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Speak with Kassi about Rai, dead gods, and [Yezali](<../../cosmology/gods/tanshi/yezali.md>). Rest at monastery.
- Jul 12, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Rest at monastery.
- Jul 13, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Soeaker Lara returns, speak with her. View Pandemonium scroll in the mirror.
- Jul 14, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Visit the giant tree of Tokra in the morning. Restock and resupply, and sell treasure in Tokra. Kenzo receives a branch from the giant tree from Rishi.
- Jul 15, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Get the portable hole, as well as instructions on its care and use, from Basu.
- Jul 16, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Depart Tokra at first light, heading west. Stay at a roadside caravanserai a day's journey west of Tokra.
- Jul 17, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel through the day. Spend the night at a caravanserai again.
- Jul 18, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel through the day. Arrive at the crossroads where the trail to Darba branches west and south. Spend the night at the caravanserai. Encounter some halflings who report rumors from the road, and a Chardonian adventurer, Marcella.
- Jul 19, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along the Darba Road, uneventfully. Spend the night at the last inn on the road before the [Copper Hills](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/darba-highlands/copper-hills.md>). Speak with Amar, the innkeeper, about his life. Gather rumors.
- Jul 20, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel at a fast pace, covering 30 miles of increasingly hilly road. Camp for the evening.
- Jul 21, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Approach the hilly terrain that marks the [Copper Hills](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/darba-highlands/copper-hills.md>). Use Beast Sense to scout out possible ambush locations and discover some bandits. Ambush the ambushers, and intimidate/bribe them into fighting the rumored dragon together. Kenzo listens to the story of [Justan](<../../people/dunmari/justan.md>), the captain of this raiding party. Camp for the night in the midst of the [Copper Hills](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/darba-highlands/copper-hills.md>).
- Jul 22, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Uneventful, but watchful, trek at a slower, more careful pace through the hills. Camp for the evening.
- Jul 23, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Morning travel along the road. Find a dead, disembowled horse shortly after lunch. Ambushed by two wyverns during the afternoon rains. Kill them, losing one of the bandits to the poison stinger. After the battle, regroup, then approached by Marcella and her Chardonian adventurer companions who want to purchase or trade for magical items of Drankorian origin. Wellby, Delwath, and Riswynn are magically charmed by one of the Chardonians. After a short battle where Kenzo is knocked unconscious, and a fairly bitter conversation, the party leaves to find the wyvern's lair with their bandit army, following an old road to the abandoned mining town of [Vandar](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/vandar.md>). Along the way they find a ruined caravan with silk and paper, largely destroyed by the rains. Arrive at wyvern's lair at dusk, in the old abandoned mining town of [Vandar](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/vandar.md>). Find the lair, some ruined buildings, a poisonous swamp with a sleeping large humanoid in it, and a partially intact temple. Make camp in the temple. Late at night, Marcella, aided by Kadmos and Casian, tries to steal the mirror of soul trapping from the party. A battle ensues, during which Marcella is knocked unconscious and left to die, the bandits are killed, and Kadmos, Casian, and Delwath nearly die as well. Ends with a bitter standoff where Kadmos takes the spinning top and agrees not to bother the party any more. As Kadmos, Casian, and Marcella are leaving, Wellby speaks briefly with Marcella. The party flees towards the abandoned mines in the foothills to escape the growing fire in the ruins, started by the battle.
- Jul 24, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wake after a long sleep, camping outside the old copper mines. Discuss situation. Use mirror to look at the Ring of Displacement. Return to [Vandar](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/central-dunmar/vandar.md>) to scout for more treasure; recover some items from bandits. Encounter poison troll, and trap it in the mirror. Return to camp for the evening.
- Jul 25, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Uneventful travel west towards the far side of the [Copper Hills](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/darba-highlands/copper-hills.md>).
- Jul 26, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Uneventful travel west towards the far side of the [Copper Hills](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/darba-highlands/copper-hills.md>). Reach the waystation and safe haven of Padma's estate in the evening, spend the night. Gather rumors and tales of Darba and report on the death of the wyverns.
- Jul 27, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Uneventful travel west.
- Jul 28, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Uneventful travel west.
- Jul 29, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Uneventful travel west.
- Jul 30, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Uneventful travel west. Rejoin the trade road from Songara.
- Jul 31, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along trade road towards Darba.
- Aug 01, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along trade road towards Darba. Look at the diamond recovered from [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>) in the mirror.
- Aug 02, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along trade road towards Darba.
- Aug 03, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along trade road towards Darba.
- Aug 04, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along trade road towards Darba.
- Aug 05, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along trade road towards Darba.
- Aug 06, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along trade road towards Darba.
- Aug 07, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along trade road towards Darba.
- Aug 08, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel along trade road towards Darba. Arrive in Darba as evening approaches. Get Johar on a ship to Nayahar. Book passage on the Emerald Song, leaving the next day for Chardon.
- Aug 09, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Sell treasure and horses. Board the halfling ship the Emerald Song, heading for Chardon. After getting settled on the ship, have dinner with the captain, some of the crew, and two other passengers, the halflings  Jasmine Sunmeadow and Oswalt Tealeaf. They are a married couple heading out to seek adventure. Discuss route with Lyle Honeyhill, the navigator, and despite the offer to hug the coast and potentially avoid the canal and Chardonians, decide speed is more important than secrecy and suggest the ship sails as fast and straight as possible. Sail north towards the Isle of Folly, a small island off the Dunmar coast.
- Aug 10, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Arrive at the Isle of Folly. Turn west aiming for the coast of Illoria. Use mirror to look at the Raven Whistle.
- Aug 11, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Sail west.
- Aug 12, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Sail west.
- Aug 13, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Sail west.
- Aug 14, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Pass near the coast of Illoria; turn north by northwest.
- Aug 15, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Sail north by northwest.
- Aug 16, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Sail north by northwest, arriving at the canal by nightfall. Spend night at docks. Party (including Baxter), except for Wellby, hide in mirror of soul trapping.
- Aug 17, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Pass through the canal, guided by Chardonian windcallers. Spend the night at docks on the north side.
- Aug 18, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Party exits mirror of soul trapping; Baxter remains inside. Emerald Song sails north by northeast towards Chardon. Use mirror to look at the fan with a Chardonian design.
- Aug 19, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Sail north by northeast towards Chardon.
- Aug 20, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Sail north by northeast towards Chardon.
- Aug 21, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Arrive at the estuary at the mouth of the Chasa River, sail into Chardon. Meet Kaeso. Have dinner with Vola.
- Aug 22, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Meet Seeker's colleague Ulfgar Frostbeard, professor on the Faculty of Metaphysics. Learn Galen, a professor of experimental metaphysics, has the Chalice of the Runepriest. Meet Dee Wildcloak and Dain Goldhammer for lunch. Learn that Fausto, a rich scholar, has the Eyes of Hralgar. Speak with Gnaeus after lunch, learn about the Elderwood and the Deno'qai. Have tea with Roscelia and Lyra.
- Aug 23, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Spend the day dealing with errands, studying, etc. Go to Galen's lecture in the afternoon. Negotiate for the Chalice. Meet Fausto, make a deal for the eyes.
- Aug 24, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Return to Fausto's tower in the morning. Conflict. Flee. Riswynn vanishes. Sneak to a safe place to rest 15 miles east of Chardon; sleep. Kenzo dreams of Hralgar.
- Aug 25, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wake up. Scry on Marcella (fail), Fausto (pass - he is finishing breakfast and then starts to cast Scrying). Buy horses at a small market town and ride as fast as possible east on the road. Travel 70 miles before stopping at midnight to rest. Mirror recharges.
- Aug 26, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Ride 60 miles east. Pass a gray stone monolith about 60 feet high. Sleep.
- Aug 27, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Ride 45 miles east before a horse throws a muscle; Wellby gives him away to an apricot farmer. Pass Chardonian legion heading east. Camp just east of Erlona, about 210 miles east of Chardon. Nightmares of a spear-wielding shadow creature chasing them.
- Aug 28, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Sell old horses and buy new in Erlona. Kenzo takes over, continue to ride. Pass Scar of Shadowfire in the evening, around 9 pm. Attacked by shadow mastiffs. Two horses and the ladder frightened by shadows and run, but are relocated after an hour. More nightmares.
- Aug 29, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel only about 30 miles as the horses are tired after the attack and Kenzo struggles to keep them on pace. Around sunset Wellby takes over, and gets another 20 miles by midnight. Camp around 320 miles east of Chardon. Decide everyone needs a long rest, but are attacked by shadow hunter and two yeth hounds around 1 or 2 am. Kill shadow hunter. Use mirror on the mask that falls of his face. Sleep.
- Aug 30, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel during the day, heading overland away from the river. Camp about 20 miles north of Arkad.
- Aug 31, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel through the day, arrive at Arendum late at night, take rooms at the Laughing Wolf inn.
- Sep 01, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Spend the day in Arendum, asking questions and planting rumors about going north upriver to the [Dwarven Kingdoms](<../../gazetteer/sentinel-range/dwarven-kingdoms/dwarven-kingdoms.md>). Stay again at the Laughing Wolf. Send letters to Chardon.
- Sep 02, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel north to the confluence of the Kayan and the Chasa. Turn invisible, and head southeast along the Kayan. Travel through the day.
- Sep 03, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Continue to travel southeast along the river. Reach the eaves of the Elderwood.
- Sep 04, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel southeast into the Elderwood. Kenzo's staff begins to pull him east. Follow where it leads, find a massive tree rising 450 feet. Kenzo medicates and becomes one with the forest. Meet a patrol from the Bek'eni, who want to take the party back to their village to meet the elf, Mezzar who has been living with them. Spend the night in the Bek'eni camp, where Delwath is treated like a lord.
- Sep 05, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Spend the day at the Bek'eni village. Meet Theba who wants to escape, but Mezzar has taken her magical spear and shield. Says she can lead the party to the [Te'kula](<../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>) if they help get her stuff. Spy on Mezzar's house in the village, and successfully carry out a heist to get the spear and shield for Theba. Debate what to do.
- Sep 06, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Try to leave village but stopped by the chief, Zaro. Seeker uses Suggestion to get him to let them go to the God tree to wait for Mezzar. Wait for three hours, but no one shows up. Mirror recharges. Look at the tree in the mirror. Mezzar arrives. Combat. Dragon reveal. Flee. Arrive at clearing where Theba told them to meet her late at night.
- Sep 07, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Theba arrives pre-dawn. Talk to Theba. Scry Bek'eni, learn they are spreading out to hunt the party. Theba promises to lead them to the Te'kula village; learns Mezzar is a dragon Travel through the woods all day.
- Sep 08, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel through the Elderwood all day.
- Sep 09, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel through the Elderwood all day.
- Sep 10, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel through the Elderwood in the morning. Arrive at outskirts of Te'kula land, pass through dream boundary, see visions. Meet Yota, chief of the [Te'kula](<../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>), and Ayalah, Godcaller of the [Te'kula](<../../groups/deno-qai/te-kula.md>). Kenzo and Ayalah talk, jades touch, experience vision of Rai. Dinner, meet [Belegor](<../../people/elves/belegor.md>). Alayah and Kenzo dream together overnight. Delwath prays to [Aaviskar](<../../cosmology/gods/tanshi/yezali.md>). Theba prays to the tanshi.
- Sep 11, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Theba proposes killing the dragon, party agrees. War planning at the Te'kula village. Convince Obel, an old hunter whose parents and family were killed by the green dragon, Grimbaskal, to join. Get blessings from the tanshi.
- Sep 12, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Leave the village for the dragon's lair, guided by Theba and the tanshi. Travel through the Elderwood.
- Sep 13, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Mirror recharges. Travel through the Elderwood.
- Sep 14, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel through the Elderwood.
- Sep 15, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Arrive at Grimbaskal's lair. Fight Grimbaskal win. Rest.
- Sep 16, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Spent the day organizing treasure. Rest again.
- Sep 17, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Leave to return to the Te'kula village. Travel through the forest, now beginning to clear of its evil influences. Find dead Deno'qai who were once the snake people turned by Grimbaskal.
- Sep 18, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel through the Elderwood.
- Sep 19, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel through the Elderwood.
- Sep 20, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Arrive back in the Te'kula village. Downtime in village.
- Sep 21, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Downtime in village.
- Sep 22, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Downtime in village.
- Sep 23, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Downtime in village.
- Sep 24, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Downtime in village.
- Sep 25, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Downtime in village.
- Sep 26, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Downtime in village.
- Sep 27, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Downtime in village.
- Sep 28, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Downtime in village.
- Sep 29, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Prepare to leave village with Theba, to help the other tribes heal from the traumas inflicted by Grimbaskal over the past twenty years or more. The elf, [Belegor](<../../people/elves/belegor.md>), agrees to come. Kenzo gets the second piece of jade from Alayah.
- Sep 30, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Leave village. As the pocket dimension collapses, the party is scattered across Taelgar. 
- Nov 14, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: **Evening in the Feywild**Raven and Spirala depart to return to [Shimmersong](<../../cosmology/multiverse/echo-realms/feywild/shimmersong.md>). Seeker is reunited with Wellby and Kenzo, who are introduced to Caulaus. The group travels to Heartwood Grove to restore Typhinia. Along the way, they encounter harpies, who are hunting Typhinia they say, pass the dry riverbed of the River of Time, and meet a water nymph. Arriving at the Heartwood Grove, Seeker restores Typhinia, only to find that she is actually [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>) Dustmother in disguise. After defeated [Agata](<../../people/fey/agata.md>), the party imprisoners her in the Heartwood Grove, and Caulaus volunteers to stay as a guardian until he can make amends.
- Nov 15, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Wellby, Seeker, and Kenzo exit the feywild at sunset, and are reunited with Delwath and Riswynn. Talk and catch up. 
- Nov 16, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Kenzo uncursed by Riswynn; Riswynn speaks with Johar via Sending. Party travels west towards Stormcaller Tower
- Nov 17, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel west; Sending with Johar; Scry on Hektor
- Nov 18, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel west; learn Johar is meeting with Karnas; detour around some ogres
- Nov 19, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Arrive south of Raven's Hold. Scout, discover it is quiet; camp early.
- Nov 20, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Riswynn's prayers are answered and [Havdar](<../../people/dunmari/havdar.md>)'s cursed sword is destroyed by the Dwarven gods, freeing him of its influence. Sending to apologize. Travel west
- Nov 21, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel west
- Nov 22, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Travel west
- Nov 23, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Arrive at [Stormcaller Tower](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/stormcaller-tower.md>) mid-afternoon, spend time planning and scouting with spells. Enter the storm around [Stormcaller Tower](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/stormcaller-tower.md>), chasing a possessed [Kenzo](<../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>). Dodge animated storm elementals protecting the approach. Reach [Hralgar](<../../people/giants/hralgar.md>)'s dreamscape, bring [Hralgar](<../../people/giants/hralgar.md>) back to himself with stories. Fight Hraglar's storm-crazed ghost duplicate. Free Hraglar from his chains, watch as he destroys the tower and the statue of his bust. Sit with [Hralgar](<../../people/giants/hralgar.md>) for the evening, talking. 
- Nov 24, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: The party says goodbye to [Hralgar](<../../people/giants/hralgar.md>) and receives his wind blessing, allowing them to travel quickly as clouds to his ruined palace in the mountains. Scout, and find dark shadows boiling out of the basement, and a icy structure on the main floor. Parlay with an ice maiden, until she brags of freezing travelers on the passes and [Wellby](<../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/wellby.md>) shoots. Defeat her ice maiden form, and then crush her heart of ice and crystal, destroying her. Venture to the library, and find their way to the [dreamworld](<../../cosmology/multiverse/spiritual-realms/proximate-realms/dreamworld.md>), where they encounter the tricks of Kurome. Recover the phasing stone, returning to a dream version of the real world. Wake themselves up before freezing to death. Record information from [Hralgar](<../../people/giants/hralgar.md>)'s library about skyships. Return to the crash of [Vindristjarna](<../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>) that evening with [Hralgar](<../../people/giants/hralgar.md>)'s wind blessing.
- Nov 25, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Work on skyship. Convert [Delwath](<../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/delwath.md>)'s shield to an adamantine harness to hold phasing stone.
- Nov 26, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Work on skyship, finishing the stone helm on which the phasing stone will be mounted; scry on [Kharsan](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>), [Kadmos](<../../people/chardonians/kadmos.md>).
- Nov 27, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Work on skyship, converting gold and silver to wire to construct the channeling device. Meet [Alesh](<../../people/dunmari/alesh.md>); speak with her about events in [Dunmar](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/realms/dunmar/dunmar.md>) and give her letter and sending stone for [Sura](<../../people/dunmari/sura.md>). Sending with Ulfgar and [Govir](<../../people/dunmari/govir.md>), who both agree to do research.
- Nov 28, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Continue to work on the channeling device; scry [Kharsan](<../../gazetteer/greater-dunmar/dunmari-basin/kharsan.md>) and see army leaving. [Seeker](<../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) dreams of shadow hunter threatening that he is coming.
- Nov 29, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Finish work on [Vindristjarna](<../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>). [Seeker](<../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) attunes to the phasing stone, begins to practice flying. Shadow dogs and shadow assassins attack at midnight.
- Nov 30, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: [Seeker](<../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/seeker.md>) spends the day learning to control and fly [Vindristjarna](<../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>), while the rest of the party prepares for the journey east.
- Dec 01, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: [Kenzo](<../../people/pcs/dunmar-fellowship/kenzo.md>) attunes to the phasing stone and spends the day learning to control and fly [Vindristjarna](<../../things/ships/vindristjarna.md>); speak with [Sura](<../../people/dunmari/sura.md>) via Sending Stone
- Dec 02, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Riswynn asks the Baharazel about their chosen course of action; Delwath's lynx spirit leaves to take letters to Lakan monks; take off flying east, with Kenzo and Seeker alternating piloting; fly 22 hours
- Dec 03, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: Continue flying east, Kenzo and Seeker alternating over 22 hours
- Dec 04, 1748 DR *(Dunmari Frontier)*: See at the edge of the [Orcs](<../../species/children-of-the-embodied-gods/orcs/orcs.md>) territory from the air, maybe 40-50 miles distant, in the early morning light.
